 On today's show we're digging deeper into willpower.
 What's that's our strength and what we can do to win?
 That is up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show, where we discuss leadership and life.
 And discover that businesses what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 Today we are talking about the second part of willpower.
 We talked a couple episodes ago episode 405 I believe.
 We talked about willpower and how you don't have as much of it as you think you do.
 Willpower is not an infinite supply.
 It's not something that you just have a lot of when we talk through a lot of how first of what it means.
 What is willpower?
 That self-control to delay gratification.
 That giving up the short term goals so that you can meet the better long term goals.
 It's that self-control that you have in life and whatever it is.
 Whether it's who you date or what car you are going to purchase or waiting and saving it for a house.
 Or not watching pornography or not taking drugs or not controlling an angry and manipulative and submissive.
 All these types of things.
 That's that self-control.
 That's what we talked about on 405.
 Today we are talking about a couple of things.
 Depleting willpower and also what you can do about it.
 So we are going to hit those things when we come back right after this.
 Next level life is our two-day personal discovery experience.
 It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover your root system.
 To get unstuck in life and discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace.
 Imagine this.
 What if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose?
 What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict?
 Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years?
 If you had clarity, purpose, and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today.
 Now I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself, is there more?
 There is.
 And there is a better way.
 And it starts with the next level life.
 You can go to Chrissacrid.com/discover to take the next step.
 Now if you're struggling with this contentment, regrets or not feeling good enough, which most of you are,
 if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking, don't keep going through the same motions every single day.
 Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace.
 Go to Chrissacrid.com/discover and take the next step.
 Before we get into the tactics of what you can do.
 Believe it or not, there is a lot you can do.
 In 405, we are citing an article from the American Psychological Association on well power.
 That article is called "What you need to know about well power, the psychological science of self control."
 We've got that in the show notes as well.
 And that is something you can walk through.
 We're going to bring you the pieces that I feel like are important to our listeners.
 And on top of that, I shared in the last episode, which was I believe two episodes ago.
 They're not giving great, here's how you solve this, but we do.
 This is something that we teach all the time in the next level of life and all our other events as well.
 That you can actually solve a lot of this.
 You can actually put tools in place.
 Now it's not going to go away, but you can put the tools in place that solves stuff like this.
 If you're struggling with self control, we need to dig down into your roots as someone discover why.
 What I will tell you is, most likely it's a trained situation.
 It's something that you've been trained to do or trained that you don't need to have self control.
 Maybe you had parents that created entitlement in you that you didn't have to help self control.
 That you could have whatever you want.
 There's all kinds of things that we would need to discover on why it exists.
 Why are you struggling with self control?
 And then we put tools in place to make great decisions.
 So a big piece of next level of life is that so many folks, most folks struggle in some way shape or form with decision making.
 Some of the decisions that they're making in life are not the best decisions.
 We've had all kinds of folks come through the one-on-one-two-day event.
 There are ways to solve this and we're going to hit some of those things today.
 So first thing we're going to start with is what the police will power.
 An important thing to understand is that when for many folks when they are tested on the self control process.
 So let's say I'm asking you to exert self control.
 Don't go and talk to that person over there that you really want to talk to.
 Don't eat that chocolate chip cookie that's in front of you.
 Don't smoke that cigarette for another 10 minutes.
 Don't whatever the thing is.
 For folks that had struggles with self control when they were kids, the study shows they had those same self control issues as adults.
 We're not going to make any victims of anybody here today.
 We're looking at perspective gathering so that we understand this.
 So folks that had kids that had great self control when they were kids.
 Decades later have great self control as adults.
 The key is that there is a range of behaviors.
 There's a range of struggles like food intake or substance abuse or abuse period.
 There is a range of decision making like purchasing habits that have to do with making you feel better.
 What we would call emotional spending.
 There's all kinds of things that affect your will power.
 And there's all kinds of things that depleted.
 One of those things is being asked to have self control by another person.
 If somebody is asking you to do something or not to do something, that can tend to be for the person who doesn't have great self control as a kid.
 Who is now an adult, that person will struggle with self control.
 That is definitely something that can deplete it pretty rapidly.
 Another thing that can deplete will power financial decision making.
 Struggles with finances.
 They can be even more depleting than for people that are living in poverty.
 If you've struggled and not been able to have in life, then financial decision making can really deplete yourself control.
 You're a will power.
 Virtually all financial decisions are likely to represent some sort of difficult test of self control, right?
 Depending upon do I buy this car?
 Do I buy this house? Do I invest in this business?
 Whatever it is, some of those heavy financial decisions can deplete your will power pretty quickly.
 What's one of the biggest things that deplete your will power you won't find this in a study?
 This is our own studies.
 This is our own things that we have seen over and over and over again.
 One of the biggest things that will deplete will power is victim mentality.
 Everything is happening to me.
 I'm a victim.
 This person is making me feel this way.
 This person has done this thing to me.
 The victim mentality will drain will power in a heartbeat.
 Also another thing that will deplete will power very rapidly,
 trying to protect yourself from the assumed opinions and judgments of other people.
 One of the biggest is not wanting to look or seem stupid.
 How many times do you see people who protect themselves like crazy
 because the last thing they want to experience is the thing that they are assuming
 which is that people think they're stupid or they're not smart enough.
 Or that they're not good enough or they don't have the right responses or
 and so what happens is victim mentality, protection.
 These are things that will deplete your will power in a heartbeat.
 What strengthens will power?
 Why can tell you personally?
 Is it something that I have worked on for many, many years
 and we have the discussion between these episodes.
 I was asking my wife, do you see me as somebody who has a good amount of will power?
 She's like absolutely.
 You work through stuff fast.
 You want to get you want to solve things.
 And I will tell you, it is something that's been a part of my life for at least
 at minimum 30 years, minimum.
 But I can even go back to days of skiing and being afraid of heights
 and pushing myself to get over the fear of heights.
 Now back in my early teen years and even younger.
 So I believe it's been a part of my life for a very long time.
 I can tell you one of the biggest motivators for me is not wanting to deal with pain.
 Not liking me, I don't have the will power.
 Not liking me, I don't have the self control.
 Not liking how it affects me.
 Not liking how my decisions that are lacking in self control affect other people.
 So here's the thing.
 The effects of will power depletion may be mitigated by positive moods, beliefs, attitudes.
 What we would say here is having the right tools,
 putting the right tools in place to actually overcome those things.
 But before we get into what to do, I want to hit one last thing.
 And I feel like this is super important for us to talk through.
 And that is one of these addictive behaviors.
 Now addictive behaviors.
 Why do we have addictive behaviors?
 Now if you, there's a whole lot of people out there that will just say,
 "Oh, it's just a part of your DNA, you can't do anything about it."
 That is absolutely untrue.
 Is there a gene that if it's turned on, you're more likely to have addictive behavior in certain areas?
 Yes, but guess what? You have to actually turn that on.
 And then not only do you have to turn it on, but you have to choose to feed it.
 You do not have a gene that causes your body to go do something without your brain being involved.
 Understand that. Your brain doesn't shut off because a gene decides that you need to put more alcohol in.
 That is not what happens.
 So this ridiculous victim mentality that says, "Oh, it's a gene that causes me to do these things."
 Nope.
 Now are there certain genes when turned on? They can influence you more? Absolutely.
 Definitely. We know that to be true.
 But they don't make the cognitive decisions for you.
 You do. Your decision making process does. How you make decisions.
 Now it all can be influenced, however, and this is kind of what we're talking about with willpower, right?
 You can deplete the glucose in your body at high rates.
 If you struggle with self-control and willpower, you can deplete the glucose in your brain faster than you can restore it.
 Causing you to lose willpower.
 Causing you to struggle with willpower.
 We know this. We see this. We see it from the effects of when people grab up sugar like crazy.
 Whenever you see somebody putting a whole lot of sugar in their bodies, and it's not a natural normal.
 They do this thing all the time. What you will discover is, or one of the things that we will do is ask what are you struggling with.
 What do you experience in your right now? And what you will find is that there's a level of stress with the person. Why?
 They're trying to restore the glucose in their body or they're trying to let up the pleasure centers in their brain so that they can numb from the stressful situation.
 These are things that happen to us in our brain when we are not doing the right things or putting the right tools in place.
 Let's hit one of those addictive behaviors that is something that is affecting so many people.
 Not just men, but women as well, and that is pornography.
 I'm not going to go crazy long into this. I want to hit some important things.
 On the first episode we talked about how the struggle in self-control lies in the prefrontal cortex.
 If you are not struggling with self-control, then the decision-making areas of your brain are actually being boosted.
 If you are struggling with self-control, then the desires rewards section of your brain is being boosted.
 It's called ego depletion. So if you are struggling with self-control, then the ego is being depleted at a rapid rate. Why?
 Because what is your focus when you're struggling with self-control, your focus is on desires and rewards.
 So when you don't feel like you're going to get the rewards you want or the desire you want, you give up.
 You stop focusing on what power will crap. It's not going the way I want it to anyway, so I'm just going to do this.
 We'll guess what? It affects your prefrontal cortex.
 We'll guess what pornography does. If he roads the prefrontal cortex, an area which is critical for impulse control.
 It's an area where you have so much other dopamine in the reward system, guess what pornography does? That erodes that.
 Poor news has been correlated with eroding the area of the prefrontal cortex that houses executive functions like morality.
 Will power. And again, impulse control. So think about it. If you're watching porn, then what happens is it starts to erode your brain in the very areas that help you to make moral decisions that help you to have self-control.
 Right? Pornography viewers are increasingly choosing more violent forms of pornography, which may be attributed to the desensitizing effect of regular consumption.
 Folks think about it. If you're doing something that's damaging self-control, it's eroding morality, what's the next thing you're going to be looking for? Something more immoral.
 Watching pornography actually rewires the brain to a more juvenile state.
 So there's a lot of folks who struggle with pornography. There's a lot of folks listening to this. Who struggle with pornography?
 It's not just a bad enough thing in degrading and stupid. It's actually damaging your brain in the process.
 Choosing it, allowing it is damaging your brain. Just like other addictions as well.
 But this one's pretty darn heavy in this area. Why is this so important?
 Why are you talking about it? Because when you have that type of information, it helps you to understand something. Something that we talk about a lot here in our devotionals and staff meetings and events and stuff like that.
 Here's the thing when it comes to the enemy. The enemy is actually not that creative. He just keeps dangling the same bait in front of you.
 If you are losing self-control, willpower, and he's very aware of that, then all he has to do is keep dangling the same thing in front of you that's going to cause you to lose willpower.
 What did we discover in the first episode? The more your text on your self-control, if you struggle with self-control, the faster you lose it.
 So, if you are somebody who is struggling in the area of pornography, it doesn't take a whole lot for you to be struggling really fast again.
 It could be something so simple as a TV show, a movie, a commercial on TV nowadays.
 It could cause you to move in that direction, but guess what? It's not literally just the porn that causes people to make decisions to go after porn.
 Because believe it or not, addictions don't just happen because of the type of addiction. When does addiction happen most?
 When your worth is tanking. When do people struggle with addiction? When their worth is tanking.
 When your spouse rips your head off. When your boss rips your head off. When you struggle with a team member. When you struggle with a client.
 When a parent is disappointed in you. When you're disappointed in you, what do we tend to do? We tend to choose something that is not good for us so that we can cope or numb.
 Unfortunately, it tends to have pretty heavy duty negative effects afterwards.
 I just want you to think about that. For some of you ladies, you may have a spouse who's struggling in this area and you've been convincing yourself that's not that big of a deal.
 Yes, it is. It's a horrible deal.
 Yes, I know it's already demeaning to you. There's no ifsands are about to about that, but guess what? There's a bigger issue.
 He's addicted. He's struggling. It's something that he's not having a easy time making smart choices with.
 So I guess time to jump in and help out.
 Switching from that, here's what I want you to know. The effects of all power depletion can be mitigated.
 You can mitigate it by positive moods. You can mitigate it by right beliefs. You can mitigate it by good attitudes.
 We call it having the tools. Understanding the struggle, understanding what you specifically are experiencing and doing something about it by putting tools in place to actually help it.
 We're going to talk more about that when we come back right after this.
 Hey, leaders, what is this past year taught you? For many of you, the events of 2020 opened your eyes to core challenges and struggles that are deep within your business.
 I'm sure we can all agree that business as usual just won't cut it this year.
 But as a leader in a business owner, you may not know where to go from here.
 So I'm here to tell you that it's time to make a change. As a leader, it's time to pour into your business and your team by learning and implementing new core skills that will make an immediate impact.
 It's time to sign up for the next level leadership live event this April.
 This event is tailor made for small business owners and leaders just like you helping you to move forward even in the climate of fear and uncertainty.
 This is not a positive thinking session, but a strategic thinking workshop, chalk full of insightful teaching and impactful learnings.
 It's going to equip you to return to your business and your team ready to implement and immediately impact their growth and stability.
 Go to crsacrero.com/liveofvent or text live event one word to the number four four two two two two for more information and to get your tickets.
 Again, that's crsacrero.com/liveofvent.
 It's time to change your business and your leadership for the better. Don't miss it.
 So if you are going to avoid temptation, if you're going to avoid addiction, if you're going to avoid the things that are causing you to lose self control, if you're going to avoid those things, guess what you've got to do.
 Plan ahead.
 Folks, you have to plan effective tactics to make sure that you're maintaining self control in the face of temptation.
 One of the things that I do in my head, Satan knows the bait that I have taken my whole life, one of the things I do is when I see it, I literally say it.
 There's the bait. There's the bait. I don't know how many times I say that.
 But it's something that I will actually say in my head to cause myself to remove myself from the situation. It could be whatever.
 So if the thing you struggle with is being angry at people because they're not doing things right. Maybe the thing you struggle with is judging the living daylights out of people because you're insecure.
 Maybe the thing you struggle with is not wanting to sound stupid or looks stupid or whatever.
 Maybe the thing you struggle with is you feel like you have to prove to everybody you're attractive.
 Whatever the thing is that bait that is being dangled in front of you, it always points back to one very important thing where you get your worth.
 You know you're struggling with self control and willpower when it's based around a worth issue.
 When it's based around you losing worth or trying to gain worth.
 Right. So if you're somebody who's controlling an abusive, when do you fall back into that situation?
 When you are around people and you feel out of control or when you're in a situation and you feel out of control, guess what?
 Choose to plan to not be in those situations. Now a couple months ago we are every year around the holidays.
 We talk to spending time with the family because there's a lot of folks that go out. They spend time with the family.
 They get some people have a phenomenal time. Some people are worth nightmare and they cannot wait to leave because they know that they're going to spend time.
 And you know with a family member or two what they're going to experience is how horrible they are. That they're not good enough. That they're sibling is so much better than they are.
 That they just make bad decisions and these are things that they hear from one or multiple family members.
 And it just becomes a terrible worth losing mess.
 And so every year around the holidays, one of the things that we talk about is how do you plan to effectively remove yourself from that situation?
 Now a lot of you are listening maybe new listeners you're thinking, "Oh my gosh, I couldn't do that. How could I just walk away?"
 Well you have to ask yourself, "Is it making you healthy or more unhealthy to stay in the situation?"
 Right? If you are being tempted to lose self-control because you've put yourself in a situation or you've allowed yourself to stay in a situation that is beating the crap out of you,
 whether it's emotionally or mentally or physically, then you can't be surprised that you are going to fall apart in that time.
 You can't be surprised that you're not going to fare well.
 So instead you have to plan. You have to understand that being in those situations that have temptation,
 whether it's situations like that with family, whether it's pornography, whether it's alcohol, drugs, whether it's control, no matter what it is.
 You have to be aware enough ahead of time that you may end up in a situation that's not going to work out for you.
 And when you do, what tends to happen to yourself control it tanks? Why? Because you're worth tanked.
 Because you're not good enough. You're not worth enough. You're struggling with people's opinions.
 You're definitely not getting enough worth from God, obviously, in this situation.
 And so self-control and willpower tanks and you cave.
 Here's the deal. With the right motivation, people are able to persevere even when their willpower strength has been depleted.
 What is that right motivation? Getting you healthy, keeping you healthy, moving yourself from an unhealthy situation into a healthy one.
 If you can get motivated that you not being an unhealthy situation, by default causes you to at least be a scoge healthier.
 If you could get that motivation, then you can plan on not being in or staying in those situations for a very long time.
 It's that important. You can actually, with the right motivation, remove yourself from the willpower draining situation and allow yourself to become strong again.
 But the key is you have to know what's causing this. And again, the stuff I'm sharing with you today is not stuff that's in the article, right?
 The thing you have to understand is, you're worth. You're worth this coming from humans.
 You're struggling with that. You need to get it from the right place. The only consistent place, which is God.
 You need to have the tools. You need to be able to shut down the negative self-talk in your brain. You need to be able to shut down the lines while I couldn't possibly leave this, you know, my family during a time when they're be raiding me.
 No, that would be so rude to them. No, it's incredibly rude to you to stay in a situation like that.
 And I'm not talking not everybody, it experiences that. But there's something that you do experience and it may not be family, it's some other struggle, right?
 The key is, when you lose worth, you're way more likely to lose willpower.
 When you are strong with your worth, your willpower is strong. Even to the point, this is what's amazing about folks who utilize the tools out of next level of life.
 When you know your worth, then you don't have the same reactions cognitively to the situation that would normally deplete your willpower.
 So let me explain what that means. When I am strong in God and somebody comes in and wants to attack me and wants to, you know, break me or try to emotionally abuse me or anything like that, if I'm strong in my worth in God and that's what I focus on a lot, then instead of receiving any of those attempts.
 I'm able to look at the person who's struggling, I'm able to see the struggle.
 I'm able to call out the struggle, I'm able to put in healthy boundaries, but I'm also able to help because I'm able to not receive the crap.
 Folks, that's a lot of work, right? That's a lot of tools that you need.
 But the first thing is, is understanding that as long as you're gaining or losing worth by human being, those situations you're going to receive.
 You're going to be offended, you're going to strike back, you're going to try to defend yourself, you're going to try and protect yourself, you're going to put the, the bricks in the wall, build the walls as fast as you possibly can.
 If you will focus on your worth being in the right place, then believe it or not, you even might be able to help that person who's struggling.
 Now, listen, don't start there. Okay.
 I will tell folks going through next level. If you can't go, you can't go fix people, you're not, don't go rescue people.
 Focus on you getting healthy and then you can respond healthy to other people. Another thing you can do, we're going to talk on the next episode of this. We've got a three part series where my lovely wife is going to be joining us.
 We're going to be discussing this through the health side of things.
 Looking at it from, you know, how does will power affect us when it comes to health? We're going to be talking about all of that.
 Another thing that you can do, an important piece. We talked about this on the first episode is that when you are losing will power at a rapid rate, then you're brain, the prefrontal cortex is actually going through glucose at a rate that's faster than you're able to replenish it.
 So the glucose that your brain has access to, you're going through super fly fast, which causes you to, when you depleted, causes you to also lose a lot of will power.
 So what's an important thing, not putting in tons of sugar. Don't do that. Don't go destroy your body with sugar because, oh, we'll Chris is saying that I need lots of glucose in my brain.
 So I just need to eat three Snickers bars. No, that's not what I'm saying at all. What I'm saying is you can maintain steady blood glucose levels by eating regular healthy meals.
 Listen, I appreciate how many of you are doing the intermittent fasting. I get it. I understand it. I appreciate it.
 But here's what I want you to understand. I have watched many people, not just one. Multiple people struggle with their moods, with their attitudes, when their body doesn't have enough energy and glucose to operate off of.
 Not saying that there isn't anything. What I'm saying is it's amazing how much you watch somebody when they finally do put food in their body, all of a sudden they operate well.
 There's a reason why you see these Snickers commercials, where they're like, hey, dude, you just need to eat a Snickers bar because you're a diva when you're hungry.
 And then I eat the Snickers bar, I'm like, oh, look, I'm great. I'm better again. Well, there may focus is that they're shoving sugar in really quickly. That's putting glucose back in, right?
 Here's what you can do. You can avoid getting stuck with low blood sugar, low blood glucose. If you eat regular healthy meals.
 Don't over eat, don't eat too much too often. Just make sure that you're putting regular meals in so that you can keep your blood glucose at a good level.
 So therefore, when you are taxed on a willpower or self-control, then you don't have the effects of a depleted glucose.
 So in conclusion, just as muscles are strengthened by consistent exercise, regularly practicing self-control may improve your willpower strength.
 Regularly practicing putting the tools in place, the very things that you need in place to actually not lose worth, not have your prefrontal cortex sucking up glucose like crazy can actually improve your willpower.
 Focusing on a good moral compass, making right decisions, making good solid decisions can improve your willpower.
 Making sure that you're focusing on your character and your compassion can improve your willpower.
 Making sure that you are not allowing yourself to be a victim will massively improve yourself control and your willpower.
 The ability to be joyful or happy will increase your willpower. Being thankful will increase your willpower.
 Practicing all of these things will help you with your self-control.
 And by far the biggest thing, if you are putting God first in your life, then I promise you that will increase your willpower and your self-control.
 If you're making him first, making him first.
 Galatians 5 says, "But the Holy Spirit produces this kind of fruit in our lives. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and what's that last one? Self-control."
 The more you focus on God, the more you do the things he tells you to do, the more obedient you are to him, the more you allow him to manifest his glory in your life, the more he will manifest the Holy Spirit in your life.
 When the Holy Spirit is being manifested in you, guess what it produces. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control.
 When you look at somebody, now I want you to look at the mirror, when you look in the mirror, do you see that fruit being produced in your life?
 Fruit is the evidence of cultivating that healthy vineyard that we talk about around here.
 It's evidence that you're trusting in, abiding in, and relying on God.
 His word in his spirit at work inside of you.
 When that is your number one, when that's your most important, the great thing is that he will manifest the Holy Spirit and the manifestation of the Holy Spirit looks pretty darn fantastic.
 And it's amazing how much it changes your life.
 Well, folks, that's all the time we have for today.
 Again, we are going to hit this from a health perspective very soon, the third in the episode.
 You know people that need to hear this. Share this information with them, help them to grow with this.
 Help us to reach a heck of a lot more people. Please do me a favor. If I'm helping you in your life, if these shows are helping you, then if my team is helping you, then I want you to do us a favor.
 Would you go to iTunes and rank us and leave a comment.
 That helps us to change more lives.
 As always, I hope this has helped you today. Take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]