 On today's show, the coaches are most of the coaches come together for a once-accorded discussion on one
 your leadership, to your business, three your life while Andrew Health as well. All of that is coming up right after this.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. We hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are as we are
 wrapping up the first quarter of 2021 on a positive note and how are we going to do that?
 Well, I say we because welcome back into the studio to have our fantastic coaches here, Joel Forner.
 Hello, hello, hello, hello. Heather Lookerto.
 Wow, hello, hi. What did we expect about? And we are going to be talking about failure.
 Yeah, we're the great positive of you. So why are we doing this? We are
 pausing and reflecting on a series that we've done, the leadership success path, which was number 402.
 The will power episodes, you know, because of constantly failing with our will power that was 405, 408,
 the KRA paying points where we learned that what it cost to not have not only KRAs but
 KRA accountability that was 406. And then the my client interview talking about their business being built
 on failure learnings that was 407. So we're pausing and reflecting on these things and looking through
 our own failures. So while you might not think that that's a positive thing, we actually do.
 We look at it as a positive thing around here all the time. What's so positive about failure?
 Well, here's a deal. Failure is a positive thing for those who learn from their mistakes and
 improve themselves. Now, if you're looking at failure as the thing that's going to take your
 worth, you're right, you probably don't like this episode, right? I just can't stand failure. Well,
 you probably wouldn't be listening to the show if that was you. You're listening to the show
 because you want to grow where failure is concerned if we're not learning then guess what,
 we're losing opportunity. All of us. Let me say it again. All of us fail. We all make mistakes.
 But you're only a failure if you choose to be. So if you choose to not learn from the process,
 then guess what you are failing. So the key is to make sure that you're always learning from your
 failures. And here's the great thing. You can even learn from other people's failures.
 Like ours. So we're going to be talking about failures today. We're going to be talking about
 we're going to be sharing some mistakes that we've made and how we've learned from those things.
 We're going to be talking about some failures that we've had our own. And so yeah,
 I wonder who's going to have the biggest failure in here? Oh, it's definitely going to be
 Heather. Heather, you know, for sure. So, all in a million.
 We're going to go that. We're going to let her go first and then scale our
 down a little bit. Iris, poet, not their Samuel Beckett said, "Ever tried, ever failed?" No matter.
 Try again. Fail again. Fail better. So that's what we're going to be talking about today.
 It's how to help you through failure by learning from some of our failures. How can we not only
 understand that failure is inevitable? If you're following thought leaders who say failure is not an option,
 choose a different thought leader. Right? Because guess what? Failure is inevitable. It's going to happen.
 So learn from it. Learn how to fail better. Learn how to take those situations and turn them into
 you being a better version of yourself. So we're going to get vulnerable today. All of that is coming up
 right after this. Hey, it's Joel Fortner here. I'm device president of leadership development on
 Chris's team and I'll oversee our next level mastermind business coaching program. Most business owners and
 leaders lack a clear path to succeed in business. They question whether they're making the right decisions,
 if they're focusing on the right things to really grow their business. If this is you, you need a coach in your
 life. Coach is helping make better decisions, navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively, and grow your
 business without sacrificing your life in your family. In their first year, our clients typically see an
 average of 67% increase in gross revenue and an average of 138% increase in net profit and regain hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3 1/2 years simply because of the results they get.
 So if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting,
 then visit ChrisCarto.com/mastermind again. ChrisCarto.com/mastermind today.
 [Music]
 Alright, we are back and we are talking about failure, our own failures. And here's what we're going to do,
 literally at the break, I said, who's going first, but here's what we're going to do. Rock paper scissors.
 So we do it? Okay. All right. 1 2 3. I don't know how to play.
 Oh, I'm like, here we go. Crash the others. 1 2 3. 1 2 3. I'm like, hey kids, that's what I'm
 going to do. You have to play. You bring dynamite into the rock paper scissors. That's what
 paper scissors dynamite. Through it's an assumed thing.
 Alright, I'll go first. There you go folks, that's how we did it.
 Dad, bring in dynamite in. I don't, that's the great thing. I'm creative.
 I know the challenge. The rules up. I've been fairly, I failed, but I know you could do that.
 Alright, so here's the main thing is what we're talking about is areas that we have failed
 as leaders. And my gosh, the truth is, you hear me say it all the time, this business is based on
 my failures. This is based on me screwing up in life, failing in life, but by the grace of God
 learning how to work through those failures, how to put tools in place, how to get over those failures,
 and then how to teach other people. And how other people to get through failures,
 that's what we do here. I mean, it's why we exist, right? Well, it's a big part of why we exist.
 We don't exist just to point out people's failures, but it's created this process of learning
 from failures and learning how to teach people through that. Hey, listen, it is okay that you fail,
 it's okay that you screwed up. What are we going to do with it? And one of the big keys that we talk about,
 we were discussing core values today at our leadership lunch. And one of the things that we were talking through
 is something that we say all the time, when somebody struggling with solving problems, because solving
 problems is one of our core values, we talk about the five things. What happened? How did it happen? Why did
 it happen? How do we fix it? How do we make sure it never happens again? So, you know, we are huge on that.
 It's okay to fail. What are you going to do about it? And so starting with me, one of my, so I have plenty
 of failures that I can teach on, but one of the big ones for me. And it's the failure side is
 I'm the kind of person who likes to give who wants to help. I'm always wanting to remove pain from
 the world. I'm always wanting to develop people. I'm always wanting to give people a chance when somebody's
 not going to give them a chance. I'm always wanting to help the process of doing that. So there's many times
 I hire great people for their talent, hire people for their gifts, hire people because they can do a job
 really well. And then every once in a while there is this desire to just help somebody who's down on their
 luck. Help somebody and I do not, that's not the failure. So that part I believe I will be doing for the
 rest of my life is that when somebody is in need, helping that person to get out of that need or,
 you know, teaching them, putting them in a big teaching environment to help them to overcome the situation
 that they're in, here's where failure steps in for me. Because my heart is there, because for me,
 I'm very altruistic on my values that's the highest by far value that I have is altruism.
 Because that's where my heart is, I followed that up with this hope. And so as I go through this,
 I want you guys to, you leaders out there that hire people. I want you to be thinking about how you
 set this in your own hiring processes and it may not have anything to do with altruism. It may just
 have to do with you believing you're going to solve this. Because I have that hope, what comes along
 with it is if I've put this person in the right environment, if I've helped them out, if I've given
 them the ability to get back on their feet, to solve things, put food on their table, all of these things
 then they're going to be, come amazingly, you know, focused on bettering themselves. And an incredible
 thing happens for a period of time they do. We've all seen it, we've all experienced it. There's a period
 of time where that helps and they're overcoming stuff. And there's folks that I 100% believe over
 my 30 years now of hiring people that it is blessed to them. It's taken them to another level. I've
 had folks that have gone through this process, reached out to me years later, going, oh my gosh,
 how do I not gone through that if you're not, if you hadn't helped me, all that. So there's so many
 good sides to this. There's so many good aspects. Here's the failure side. Sometimes,
 folks that are struggling in those situations will have a tendency to self-sabotage
 in the process. Sometimes, when given that opportunity, because it was done from the side of,
 I want to help you grow. I want to help you be better. I want to help you overcome situations in
 life. I want to help you from making bigger mistakes in the future. I don't want you to continue on
 a, you know, let's put you in an environment where we can get healing, we can get growth, we can get all
 that, that they get that to an extent. And then once there's a decent amount of growth and freedom
 and all that, then all of a sudden, there tends to be this. Okay, now I'm going to go back to making
 these types of decisions or self-sabotaging decisions or, well, now I'm not good enough for this or
 things aren't, now that I've got this, these major problems in my life cleared, I'm going to go create
 new problems or I'm going to go, you know, I'm going to go down this direction, which is not the
 smart, whatever it is, what I tend to see. And like I say, it's probably not been 30 years that I've
 been doing. This has probably been 18 or so years that I've been doing this. And what I've seen time
 and time and time again is this. Thank you so much. I appreciate this. Now I'm going in a different direction.
 And it tends to be a self-sabotaging process where they go back to making some not-so-great decisions.
 And as I sit down over and over and Joel, you've been on a conversation or two of this,
 you might have been in on a conversation, I don't know if you've been on any of these conversations with me,
 Heather. And by the way, we're missing Erin West. We should have had Erin on the show as one of our coaches, but
 next show. He's out sick. Is that what we're saying? Yeah. Insert Erin's voice here. I just
 edit yourself into all of this. So what tends to happen is, even when we sit down and we go, hey,
 look at all you've done, look at where you are, look at how much you've grown, look at great decisions,
 you're making, look at you've gotten some toxicity out of your life, you're making, you know,
 you're putting food not only on your table, but you're putting money in the bank,
 the thing after thing after thing after thing, there can still be this. Yeah, but. Yeah, but I need to go do this.
 I need to go make this decision. I need to go jump in this crazy relationship. I need to go do whatever it is.
 We see all kinds of stuff. And for me, as a high-altre, is that my biggest business failure? Not at all.
 But here's how I relate this to, you know, leaders that are listening to the show, folks, how many times
 have you convinced yourself you're going to fix this person? You're going to hire this person,
 you're going to put this person in place. Yes, you see some red flags, but everything's going to be
 fine. Everything's going to work out. I'm going to put them in place. They're going to become total rock
 stars. I'm going to be padding myself on the back six months from now because wow, what a great
 higher. And then three months later, you're going, what the heck is going on? This person is not working out.
 This is a struggle. Why can't you just do the thing? And then, you know, for a lot of leaders who
 put somebody in that role, let's see, I don't know how to fix this. I don't know what to do about this.
 So, there is one of my big failures. And what, why did I choose this failure over
 finite bad financial decision? I mean, I've made some bad financial decisions that cost me personally
 100,000 dollars. 100,000 dollars. I've made bad decisions on situations that, you know,
 I've had those. What? Those are easy, er, to fix my heart struggles. This is one of those as a
 person who wants to lead people to success and help them to become better versions of themselves,
 which is why we're talking through failure for a quarter. This is one that I struggle with personally
 of, I don't want them to screw up. So, there is my situation, there is my failure that I'm bringing
 to the show today. So, have you, so let me ask you some questions. So, have you recognized like,
 wow, I've done a lot of that over the years. You kind of know this, having been with me for eight
 years. And the last eight years, I've probably done it three, four, five, six, four, so five.
 I mean, if you just kind of calculate probably in the last eight years, probably once every two years,
 once every, once every two years, maybe. So, what do you feel like you either miss or,
 do you look back on yourself and got in say gosh, this is why I brought them in. And now,
 maybe I'm frustrated with where they're at, what's like the bigger failure for you? So, here, so,
 this is so glad you're asking this because it's so funny because we've had these discussions, right?
 Where it's like, hey, this is what I'm looking to do. I know that this is probably, you know,
 how many times have I done this and said, guys, this may end up horribly.
 Several times, hey, I'm hoping this helps this person get to a better place, but guess what?
 It could be a colossal failure. But hey, my heart is, I want to help. I want to do something.
 It's not hiring something. No, let me be very clear on this. It's never putting somebody in a
 vital role that we need a super talented person that I'm going, oh, instead of getting a super talented
 person, I'm going to put somebody who's struggling in life into this role. It's never that.
 It's here somebody who's struggling, can I help? Can I, you know, can I bring him in? Can I plug him in?
 Can I, do we have the money to pay and put food on their table and take care of them? It's all out of that aspect.
 But each time I've said, hey, here's the situation. We've talked through, you guys have asked me
 phenomenal questions and you've never shot me down maybe one time and that person didn't actually end up here
 anyways. So that's funny. But it's never been a, this is the world's biggest mistake. It's a yep, we agree.
 We see that. We hope it works out. It's great. We have the opportunity. We have the money.
 Let's move forward on it. So, I don't know if that's answering the question, but I've never looked at it and gone,
 I don't know what to do with this person because we do. We help. We got it and they have an immense
 amount of growth. But a lot of times I think it's the situation where it, it maybe it's the, they didn't come after the role.
 They weren't interviewing for a role that was a career move that didn't also involve healing.
 So a person who's healed enough, I guess, was a way to say it. That is going after a career move is making a
 specific role. I want this role. I want to come do this job. I'm not coming looking for a handout, hand up,
 help me out emotional growth healing, any of that. There's going for a role.
 So I think because of the nature of the situation, which it's discussed with the people,
 you know, hey, I want to help you out. I want to see if we can do something. I think that might put this
 little piece in there that there isn't the skin in the game that would be if somebody's going for a career role. Does that make any sense?
 I think so. Because the interesting thing is like you have a, we talk about it and you want to bring somebody in
 and we want to bring them in. But then three, four, six months down the road, it's like, well, where are we now as
 leaves? Are we struggling? Do we have expectations mismatch? Or are we struggling with just, you know, the decision making other person?
 That's what I'm hearing. A lot of that's what I'm hearing come through. Yeah. And I mean, I think that's, I think that's it, right?
 Because we offer every opportunity, please let us help you on this, please let us catch you and direct you on this.
 And for the short period of time, it is a welcome gift. You know, it is a thank you so much. I'm, yes, this is what I want to do.
 That's that honeymoon period. That was very, because you're coming out of a crappy situation. And then there's such growth. Like I say, the funny thing is is that, you know, a year or two later, I get this, I can't tell you how much that meant to me and how great it was. And, you know, they've moved on and then there's this
 Wow, the world is different away. You know, and they go and face those decisions and then I usually get this, probably half the time I'll get this.
 Hey, thank you. That was so powerful. It really meant a lot to me that you love me to come in. So I think the big failure in my mind is
 See the thing is, is that I don't think there's anything wrong with having that heart. We're not affecting the business in a negative way. It's not affecting our revenues that we can't afford it. It's not affecting team members. The team is strong enough to be able to but healthy boundaries in place. When necessary.
 I think the failure is the the hope piece that with all of this in front of them that they're going to make the decision to continue and not self sabotage. The failure piece is watching the self sabotage of okay.
 I've gotten so much healing in help. Now I need to go make other decisions.
 Yeah, no, that's what I was going to ask you was do you see that failure as you know you hoping to help them and then they get here and they have all the tools and the opportunity in front of them and still choose to self sabotage.
 Yeah, because I think when we look back at it, I mean we know going into it, hey, this is this is a risk this may very well happen because we all talk about it before going into that hiring.
 And then you know we don't know what happens on the other side. But I think we all as a team are stronger on the other side from it and us as leaders are stronger from it and we don't necessarily see it.
 With that person, the effect that it has, but I would say I know you're hard enough to know that for you that failure has to be the gosh if they could just get it they're in a safe environment and amazing place if they could just grab hold.
 Yeah, so yeah, I think the it's it's the failure part on my side is an acceptable failure. I'm willing knowing the environment we have knowing the strength of the team knowing the opportunities knowing that it's not going to affect anything in a horrible way.
 I think the worst one affected us, you know it cost us some money and it was really a kind of a shocker and a surprise but it was one of those that it was like well we couldn't have seen that one that peace coming.
 So when I the reason again why I'm bringing this up is because it's so relatable in the idea of putting a person in a role going they're going to be great there and you know or a person's failing and then saying no I can fix that.
 That's the part that relates so well to leaders out there because we see it all the time and we see it all the time and events and everything and you know leaders talk into us going what would you do about this.
 And the first thing is you've got to get to a place of recognizing I can't make you I can't fix you I can only highly suggest all the things to heal to grow to do better with.
 And then when I see you going to self sabotage I can only suggest that you don't and that's the part where I feel like it it falls apart is at that place of going I know you know you and I have literally Joel sat down with at least one person going you do see yourself you see what's going on you see what you're doing you see in the person's responses yeah but I don't know how not to.
 And it was like that right there is that I can't go any further than this that's as far as I can go I can't make you change I can't make you make you make a better response so for me it is that you know I've done what I can.
 But I still in my brain even though we talked through it even in my brain it's like.
 This time we've got the environment we got the deal we got the people that's person's I think that's probably even though this is an acceptable failure for you what's the learning.
 The learning is is that I think every single time what we have done is we have taken a really hard look at how fast we think this person might sell sabotage.
 How you know what would that look like is there it doesn't even do are there hands going to be on anything that can affect clients their hands going to be on anything that can affect the team in a really bad way.
 So we really I think got to a place of knowing that if this is going to happen that the failure is not going to be a fail failure so if they self sabotage you know we're either going to.
 You know have them leave if they're making really bad decisions as far as a business goes if they're making really bad personal decisions that's on them you know we'll do what we can.
 But usually what tends to happen is is when they do self sabotage they also piece out you know they realize they literally can see I'm making decisions that go against the culture I just can't stay because I want to continue to make my.
 Bad choice or bad choices and so they usually tend to leave so the things that we learn are you know and it's I think it's been this way for a long time is.
 We just don't allow them to be a part of anything that could cause federal failure to the business we don't allow them to be part of anything that could cause federal failure to a client.
 And then I think on the front side there's a deeper discussion on things you know on hey it's it's almost a if we don't say it out loud but almost a if you're going to fail here's the direction you're going to fail and.
 So in those types of situations so I think those are those are some of the biggest learnings I don't know what do you think what do you guys think we've learned from this process.
 Well I think we've won we've grown as leaders I think it's great to have these discussions on the front side when we go into it because it's if it's because if leaders are hearing.
 Well that sounds like a really crappy hiring process you guys have no this is the thing it's like what's the hard process I would be a credit exactly it's not it's a we make choice is to bring people into our business and our team very deliberately.
 And we think it through we may know we know the risk it's a calculated thing but it may not be what I'm coaching people or parents coach people you are on hiring process it's how we choose to do it.
 Looking at it through giving an opportunity out your rhythm well those you know what actually I have had.
 A couple of opportunities with somebody who's come to me with the same you know leaders that have come to me saying here's the situation.
 And so I've actually been able to coach them through and go just understand and it's the funny thing is they've had the same initial responses as we did back in a day of.
 I think that's been you know I've been able to coach other leaders who have had that altruistic heart of.
 Can I give what are your thoughts on me giving this person a chance and I'm like here's all the things to you know here's all the ways it could go wrong so I've actually had some of those conversations.
 Which is again good because it's coaching on on failure total.
 All right so we're going to finish up with Chris this now you're ready.
 Hey leaders what is this past year taught you for many of you the events of 2020 opened your eyes to core challenges and struggles that are deep within your business.
 I'm sure we can all agree that business as usual just won't cut it this year but as a leader in a business owner you may not know where to go from here.
 So I'm here to tell you that it's time to make a change as a leader it's time to pour into your business and your team by learning and implementing new core skills that will make an immediate impact.
 It's time to sign up for the next level leadership live event this April.
 This event is tailor made for small business owners and leaders just like you helping you to move forward even in the comment of fear and uncertainty.
 This is not a positive thinking session but a strategic thinking workshop chalk full of insightful teaching and impactful learnings.
 It's going to equip you to return to your business and your team ready to implement and immediately impact their growth and stability.
 Go to crissacrero.com/liveofvent or text live event one word to the number four four two two two two for more information and to get your tickets again.
 That's crissacrero.com/liveofvent.
 It's time to change your business and your leadership for the better.
 Don't miss it.
 We're back from the break talking about our personal failures and we're ramping mine up.
 So, on everything that we discussed on, you know, giving somebody a hand up and putting them in a situation and hoping that we can lead them to success.
 When it's not a regular higher somebody coming with talent and gifts for that role.
 Before the break you were chatting about taking calculated risks and I think that's one of the things that you teach us as leaders is that hey it's okay to take calculated risks that it's okay to fail.
 We need to learn from it.
 I was reflecting on, "Hey what am I going to talk about when it comes to failure?"
 "Oh good, we get to shift to your.
 So, January, once a quarter we do a retreat here in our office and one of the things that we've been trying to do is move me out of the details of a lot of things so that we can transition me into other stuff.
 And the workbook happens to be a, if any of you have come to one of our events, you know that the workbook has been known in the past to cause issues.
 It's a mini book, right?
 It's so much in a lot of detail.
 There's so much information in detail.
 And so I, you know, we got up right to the couple days before the event when I became aware of some miscommunication that was happening and some unraveling of the workbook details that were happening.
 And I actually came to you about it and I said hey, you just said why I, this is going on right now and no it's not going to be a fatal failure,
 but I want you to know that I'm not going to because my gut is to just step in, take control, take over run with the details and get it done, but that's not going to help in the long run if we're trying to get me out of this.
 So hey, I'm just going to let this play out.
 It's not going to affect our clients, but I want you in the loop and you were like okay, cool.
 And you know, and right up in the day of the event, you know, we had some minor mistakes, the client didn't know, but it was a good teachable moment on the backside just to sit down with the team and say hey what happened, what did we miss?
 How did it happen?
 I want you to talk about the process of failure with them and out of, out of it became this now we have a best practices sheet sheet sheet sheet for hey when we're going to print with something.
 This is the checklist that you need to run through because there are so many details that can get missed, but it was, it was entered it was nerve racking for me because at the end of the day.
 Ultimately was was mine as a leader to, you know, to make sure that the team wasn't they didn't have all the processes correct the head of time.
 Set up for success.
 Yeah, and at the same time I'm wanting them to stretch and grow and be proactive.
 And so it was a good lesson all the way around for all of us to go.
 I think that the way that you're going to be a good player that allows you the opportunity to teach failure to your team.
 Hey, you fail that not letting them to success on it, which because you do such a great job of coming back through and finding, you know, walking through the processes it revealed that failure.
 But then you chose, which is I love this is just makes me so happy is that you chose in that opportunity to go.
 Here's what I'm willing to allow so that the team experiences failure and they can grow and learn from it.
 This, this is not some, you know, crazy, sadistic how one I heard people.
 It is a, hey, this is a great opportunity.
 It's going to be failure.
 Can you be a problem, I have already failed. How can I help the team grow? Is that kind of sum it up?
 Yeah, yeah, and it was getting them, you know, to learn on the on the backside ultimately on, okay, how do I going forward?
 How do I anticipate be proactive if I don't know how to do something or, you know, who, what resources do I have, what tools do I have, what pieces am I missing?
 To think that way.
 Instead of, you know, just going off of the checklist or just going off of what they know.
 So I think it, it was a teach of all moment. It was fun to go back and stuff.
 We always have post event meetings, which is always the Monday staff meeting up to the event.
 And so it made for it was a very heavy but good staff meeting because we walked through and we always ask people, hey, tell us, tell us where you saw fires.
 That meeting we do two things on that and this is every single time I've done this for gosh 20 years.
 Let's talk through all the good stuff first.
 We have to have that pat on the back. We have to celebrate. We just did this.
 We as a team rock this, we killed it, we did this is great, we go through the good stuff.
 And then we say, okay, what did we screw up and what can we fix so that we know, all right, and it's always the cultured here is fix it. Let's move on.
 Let's go forward.
 I think here's the thing that I saw out of that process was, I know the process of going to print.
 I know the things that I put in that email, I know the communication that needs to happen because I know the vendor and I know how they receive information.
 I know all those details, but when I step back, there's no other person that knows those details.
 And so, you know, like we have the saying that, hey, you need to write your processes and you're checklist or you know your action items in a way that if you got bit by a rabbit squirrel, somebody could come in and pick right up where you left off.
 And so, it's a good opportunity to constantly be analyzing your processes and go, is this so cut and dry that any team member can jump in and run with it and know what to do.
 You know.
 We've had that saying for decades, it's a funny people are like, man, wonderful habits, squirrels are a problem there in Tennessee.
 No.
 No, that's not part of our calculated risk.
 Exactly.
 So, how did that go? How did that go with the team?
 It went well. Here I think what I love about our team is that they are quick to take personal responsibility or to just step up and go shoot.
 I missed that. Yep. Yep. There it is.
 And so, it was great just to have the conversation and walk through with them and go, what could we have done?
 Or what would you communicate or what should you communicate to a vendor with this?
 How else would they know X, Y and Z? You know, getting them to just like I said, think, oh, shoot. I didn't, I just assumed that.
 Yeah, it's so funny because you're choosing something as you're talking through it I'm thinking, I wonder how many people are going, it's a workbook. Why is this a big failure?
 And really? It's the workbook. So here's the great thing. We had this conversation with clients in for a two day strap plan last week and one of the clients, you know, when they were at an event years ago that we had a workbook issue.
 And so funny because he goes, we were talking through allowing your team to fail and how to work through all that stuff.
 And he goes, literally goes, this is Jamie that was with us by the way.
 He goes, it tilts us head back because you know, I remember when we came to the event a few years ago, you were on stage, you know, in front of the whole crowd, he goes, you were on stage and you said, you know, on page 72.
 And somebody said, what's page? You're like, on this page, you're like, there is no page 72.
 And he goes, Chris, you just want does nobody have page 72. And everybody's like, nope, we don't have that page. And he said, you just looked to the back.
 And this is awesome. This is such a great moment in this discussion as I'm helping them with their business. He goes,
 He goes, you just looked at the back and you went on. And he goes, and all I could think of in that moment was, who's thinking they're getting fired?
 Yeah, who's thinking, this is over. And I said, oh, that's hilarious. I said, because here's what the look meant. So, well, it's that I'm saying it, what did it look mean?
 Yeah, you just looked in the back of the room to see if we had it.
 And you know, and what was it?
 To see if one of us was going to grab it, fix it, and make sure it didn't happen again. And so...
 We've literally not even talked about that in years. And I love that that's the answer that you guys know. So for him, he said in the thing, which is interesting, because then it makes me go,
 He had to explain to the people our communication, where in his mind, because it wasn't a clear,
 I wasn't mad or wasn't anything like that. But in his mind, he thought, oh man, somebody's in trouble. And I said, that's interesting, you saw that way.
 I said, because that's not what the stare meant. The stare meant. You got this.
 Who got the task? Yeah, who's going to take the set?
 Go get them in the page or do whatever. And I showed no my team because we walked through this so well that I know that we have a failure right now.
 And we have connected with eyes. And I know that you gave me a head nod, and that was it. I don't even have to think about it after this.
 Now we will talk about it on Monday morning. Right.
 Hey guys, that was a failure. How did that happen? But I know that I can continue on with on the stage of moving forward, because the problem will be solved.
 We have the problems there. It's a failure. It's a failure in front of a group of people. It's a failure. I don't know if he actually looks around and goes, "Heather made this mistake.
 Joel made this mistake." People go, "Chris's team screwed up." And the great thing is, it's not a fail. It would be a completely different thing if there wasn't a workbook.
 Right. They showed up. But it's like, "Hey, here's a number two to conderoga pencil."
 "T conderoga." Take a tie conderoga and then you just New York.
 Tie conderoga pencil and a pad. Take great notes. But that was a great moment of, "Hey, this is a failure."
 And that's why the workbook is something that for you and your team, you have so many opportunities to fail on this thing.
 Because there's so much information, but that's why that was a big deal for you.
 We've literally had workbooks where we have the workbook was upside down.
 We've made the failure of there isn't in the checklist to go through the workbook and proof it once we got the physical copy.
 And so, day of, or no, with the night before our big event that we caught the air, and we had to go to the printer.
 He had to print him off. We had to run back there the following morning. We had to reset all the workbooks.
 And it's stuff like that that the whole workbook has become a, "Hey, have you added that to the checklist, have you made sure this has happened?"
 And anything can happen. But it's been a learning process with the workbook.
 It's been a lot of those, the vein of your existence type of things.
 And it was so funny because that I had leadership launch drills like, "Hey, Lene wants to know, when can she know this thing down for two months from now?"
 Right? She's wanting to make sure, "Let's get this done because that's what it's caused."
 It's created this opportunity to go, "Oh crap, you failed. This is your team. This is your area. You failed on this. Fix it. It creates another different type of failure.
 Fix that sucker. But it also gives you the opportunity to go, "I need my team to feel this pain."
 And this is something that needs to be a burn to their saddle that makes them go never again. Always know this is coming.
 Yeah, I think I wanted to see that opportunity to, because it's like I said it's such an anticipation or what am I not?
 I want them to be able to get in the mindset of what could possibly fail. What am I possibly missing? What haven't I covered?
 It would have been a way to help. It would have been a way for you to just take responsibility. It would have been a wasted opportunity for you to just take up responsibility fix everything right away and not allow them to.
 Because there was plenty of failure on there and that they could see that they had opportunities to catch and sort of been a wasted opportunity for you to just take the responsibility and fix it.
 And allow everybody to feel some good pain. So now everybody says, "Hey, right, exactly."
 Good, good, good, good. All right, Joseph.
 So, my personal failure, we're going to go home.
 You know, that's Aaron. That's why we actually don't have any.
 That's why Aaron is not out of Aaron. He's like, "He's perfect." He's been led well to success.
 Take that, leaders. No. No, my failure reflecting back as I was thinking of what to talk about was a personal failure as just as a father.
 And I imagine a lot of parents will be able to relate to this one site once I explain it. So the other day, in the reason I'm hitting this is because we do business leadership in life.
 And I was like, "Well, I'll go life. Let's go personal."
 So I'm standing in the kitchen and Malcolm is wanting water. And wanting a water cup. And he wants how all kids do. He wants his cup.
 Well, his cup is not available. So I'm going through all the kids' cups down below.
 And I just pull out his own first mistake.
 Right, I pull out Josiah. So I'm like, "Okay, we're going to solve the problem. He's going to be okay. They share things all the time."
 And so I go to give, I start filling Josiah's up with water to give it to Malcolm. And he leased, starts talking to Josiah. And she says, "Hey, Josiah."
 And I didn't let her finish. I jumped in there and I said, "Eleased, but I'll."
 Oh, no.
 And Joel doesn't say things like "but out." That's not. You can tell, like I was just in a funk. I was feeling a little bit problematic in troll.
 I was struggling and I was frustrated about some things. And Elise is jumping in. And I cut her off.
 And then I fill up the water. I take it to Malcolm, give it to him. And then I sit there and I'm like, " Joel."
 You just totally jumped in. You have no idea what he was going to say. You made an assumption about what she was going to say. You need to find out what your six year old daughter was actually going to say.
 Because I'm assuming she's about to say, "Josiah, daddy's giving Malcolm your cup."
 Right. That's what's in my head. I cut her off and then I have two harsh of a response.
 The funny thing is the assumption is that you are saving more conflict.
 Yes, exactly. I'm going to shut this down and I'm creating it.
 So here's the 42 year old creating the conflict with the six year old. And so I'm like, "Okay, what you're going to do?" So I go over and I sit down with the kitchen table and I look to cross there and I say, "Hey, what were you going to tell Josiah?
 I was just going to let Josiah know that you were giving Malcolm his water cup, so he wouldn't come and ever pick it up, mistaken it for him, and I'm like, "Oh, boy Joel, great work."
 Great job. And so I'm sitting there.
 I'm sitting there and I look at her and I said, "Listen, I'm so sorry that I just did that. I said daddy made a big assumption about what I made a big assumption there."
 I said, "I'm sorry for doing that." And then she says, "I think we can all work on not making assumptions." She's fixed and I'm like, "So proud of my daughter."
 And then I'm looking at myself and I'm like, "You are a moron. Don't make this mistake." But here's the things I reflect on us.
 So I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on her. I reflect on
 Sorry, I reflected back on it. I'm like, "Okay, that's exactly how that should work out as the parent. I have to be able to acknowledge where I messed up and go and actually apologize.
 Go get the perspective. What were you actually going to say walk through it, apologize?" And like any time I've ever apologized to my kids when I own a failure, the thing I immediately see in them is freedom.
 Oh, it's a waste. Wate leaves their body. A smile comes on it because they realize, wow. I'm not in trouble because they know like something wasn't right there.
 But there's freedom and weight that leaves them. But then we go to like looking at, okay.
 That's a reconciliation. Yeah, it's a redemption. Exactly. And I'm like, "Man, what a much more of a huge failure."
 Because if I were still sitting here two or three weeks, two or three weeks off this failure, I still remember it. What do I now feel if I don't actually do the reconciliation?
 Right. Guilt, big time. And then I'm still going to be sitting in pride of not being able to.
 Well, and I'm still talking about it. What does she experience? I don't even know why I was just shut down.
 Daddy's just that's that. But Daddy's now upset and it's my fault. She doesn't. She's sex. And while she's so intelligent, at least is now becoming a more consistent discussion.
 She has such great phenomenal responses, like healthy responses. But there's no way not only a six year old, but another 42 year old.
 What have responded with? I don't know what I just did to piss him off, but I did something.
 You know, and it's so powerful to see, "Oh my gosh, I'm literally relaying that to another person by the way that I'm responding with this." You suck and you better stop right now.
 And what I'm saying is, "You suck." And I'm not going to tell you why.
 Right? So just even in that process of being able to recognize that impacts my child if I stay prideful, if I don't do something about it, that impacts my child.
 And man, then what do I raise? Which is great, because why does at least have such great responses?
 Because you guys have done such a phenomenal job training the kids on the things that we teach and helping them to have healthy choices and all that kind of stuff.
 It's interesting because even as an ex-several life facilitator, I mean how many times do we actually teach in coach on this very topic related topics?
 And it's, my goal is not perfect kids because I teach life stuff.
 Stuff's going to happen. They're going to be imperfect, but I want to know how they respond, or I think a key is being able to have these tools and being able to work through simply working through things like pride.
 Because that's the number one thing that will keep you back and hold you back from going and actually apologizing, or it's just that fear and that pride that's in there of actually having reconciliation.
 And that's what pulse back so many parents today is like, "I can't go do that. I'm the parent."
 And so, or I say, "Well, that will put me in a place of weakness if I have to go apologize to my little kid. No, I have to be the parent. I have to stay. That's all self-protection."
 And that when we learn to work through that stuff because that's not most of my life.
 Most of my life it would have been just feel bad, feel guilty, but stay prideful and just be right.
 And just let that situation go rather than know what, that's all just broken stuff inside of me.
 But such a humble response and then you think about it and you know that Josiah and Elise and Malcolm and Addy are all experiencing that and growing up knowing, "Hey, it's okay to own my stuff and humble myself enough to walk through that process because you're teaching them that."
 Are teaching, you're teaching them that it's okay.
 Yeah, I think again, to your point, the story that Mary best shared, when Elise assumed something that happened at the playground and then walking away was able to go, maybe I shouldn't have done that.
 What's again, because it goes so well with her comment, "I think we can all work on that."
 That's where that comes from.
 They wrote perfect. And it's so interesting, one of the things you just shared, another one of my God children, Abby, I call her Appster here at the office.
 I didn't share that the other day. Abby, one of my God children works here, which is a little bit.
 As we were having the discussion and staff meeting, and we were talking through a big teachable moment through the need to be right or having to be right and everything.
 And she brought up such a profound piece of, there were so many profound pieces that went through the whole conversation, but one of the things she said I'd never heard it this way, she made comment of the competition to be right.
 Like, we always talk about the need to be right, have to be right, can't be wrong. We talk about that over and over and over again.
 And she made the comment about the competition to be right. And so it's just an interesting thought process of when we take a look at all of these vulnerable opportunities.
 Why are these, I didn't know which failure she got, I don't know if you guys knew which one I was going to share, but I didn't know which one you guys were going to share.
 And why are these the ones that we shared? It's interesting. You didn't know what I was going to share. Did you know what I was doing?
 I don't know what that. So none of us knew in each one of us chose vulnerable failures, not, oh my gosh, this was a big business fight.
 That's interesting that all three of us chose the vulnerable failures, right, because these are the ones that matter to us.
 Yeah, they have everything to do with the decisions that we made. There were failures and decisions. And they sting. And there's emotional impact.
 Because as I reflect back on this failure, every time I do and I debrief it in this way and I talk about it, we should kind of podcast for every time we fail.
 That'd be great. We'd all learn really fast. But as I do that, we have a lot of content.
 I have a lot more than 400 podcasts, right? I continue to learn and grow because I reflect and that's really such a valuable value of being even an ex-evil
 I facilitate or an echo. I see myself in the people I help all the time and Mary Beth and I were out on a date night. We were talking about this as just talking about our stories and growth over the years.
 And I come to work every week and I lead someone on Thursday and Friday and I'm constantly learning and growing and seeing their me, theirs me, theirs me, theirs me,
 and then coaching people through it and allows me to grow as well and see how many people have gone through it.
 And I go, "Come and tell me about all of her prints." That works out well for unity and Mary's.
 But she's like, "You know what, it's interesting because I don't have, I've not had that."
 That Mary Beth is grown in immense amount. But it was interesting just to reflect on it that way of looking at our levels of growth over the years and just how it's come about.
 Yeah, totally. I do love that. I'm just pointing this out. I love that the three of us came together on this pause and reflect and we all chose vulnerable ones that's thing.
 I think Heather for years that it's a vulnerable, I mean you tell me, but I think a vulnerable failure because it's not only one that's happened a couple of different ways.
 And again you haven't made the same exact failure on that, but it's in a moment that's right before it affects clients.
 Yeah, that's the big piece instead of affects somebody else. And I think that's why it hurts.
 Yeah.
 Matter it's so personal. It's because your poor decisions or your decision-making process creates a poor experience for somebody else.
 So that affects somebody else. So. Yep. So good stuff. I love it. And folks, I hope what you're pulling from this and what you're getting from this is, "Hey, it's okay to be vulnerable. It's okay to fail."
 The thing is is, and by the way, if you have not noticed the greatest new marketing tactic of every piece of marketing out there that says, "It's not your fault. Why can't you lose weight?
 It's not your fault. How can you make cake grow, but it's not your fault. Listen, take responsibility.
 It's your fault. It's your fault. Right? This is one of the new things that is out there like crazy. You know, trying to teach people, "It's okay. You're a victim to the world. Oh, for the love."
 Kick the victim as my wife would say, "Ditch it to the curb instead of kick it to the curb."
 You have to, "Yeah, don't live in the victim mentality. Take responsibility. It's okay to be vulnerable. It's okay to fail."
 And as we're talking through these situations, each one of these situations, which is another funny thing, involves us helping somebody else to learn and grow through the failure process.
 For me, us sitting down as a leadership team walking through, "Is this okay? Can we do this? Are we willing to take this calculated risk?" In your situation, if the failure is already there, here's an opportunity to help the team feel pain,
 which will cause them to have a heightened sense of making sure this doesn't happen in the future.
 Obviously, in years, not only are you catching yourself in the process and recognizing the good that your daughter was doing, but teaching the ability to, it's okay to screw up.
 It doesn't mean that you're a failure. It's okay to not only screw up, but take responsibility in the moment when you do it, take responsibility, solve the problem, and move on.
 And you last pieces of input from you guys. So I think as we talk about failure, I think it's important. And we talk about it all the time, just to be really clear about having a common process about a failure.
 And I think the one I'm about to share, it's very simple. You've already alluded to it that we practice here on this team, but you can practice in your anywhere in life.
 Anywhere in life, anywhere a failure comes up. If you have a mindset of learning from it, it's to ask these questions. It's what happened? How did it happen? Why did it happen?
 How are we going to fix it? How are we going to make sure it never happens again? And you're going to lead yourself to great answers.
 That's, is it means it's never going to happen again? Maybe not, but you sure mitigated the risk and you've learned you've put things in place.
 And so you can do this with any one of these examples we've brought up. I've been thinking about that as we've gone through. It's like, well, how do we solve it? Like one piece I didn't share.
 Just really quickly was, well, hey man, slow down and gain perspective. Don't interrupt.
 Find out the information and you avoid the whole failure or you, yeah, you avoid the whole failure. But if you fail and you operate with that growth mindset of learn from it, rather than that fixed mindset of victim mentality,
 or that fixed mindset of, I just can't do it or like you said, it's like, you know, you just, you can't do it because the world's screaming at you.
 It's like, well, it's not your fault. That's just pausing you to live in slavery, rather than living in fixed mindset, or living in growth mindset.
 I just don't know yet. I can learn and I can grow that these questions help you have a fantastic, just process that you can work with within your team or even teach to your family.
 Yeah, and again, does it work 100% of the time? Man, it's a solid 95% of the time this process is made to a great place.
 There are times that a problem is so big, we actually have to come back. We're not getting enough perspective or something has to change.
 But I mean, I'm saying 95 possibly 98% of the time. If you walk through those five pieces, it changes everything.
 Another thing I love is because we talk through this stuff, the opportunities to look at how could we have done it differently.
 For you, what if you were to just let her say, what she was going to say, then it becomes a teachable moment and the, what does she did create conflict?
 Hey, let's sit down and talk about creating the conflict, right? What if you don't say anything at all?
 And you solve the problem for the team and then they get into a position where it's a really tough painful loss for them, you know, because of failure happens. It doesn't get caught, right?
 What if we don't talk through, hey, Chris, maybe this isn't somebody we, you know, we help with this process.
 All of those pieces, I think it's interesting if we do not walk through this stuff like you just shared, then we may not get to a place of having greater perspective for making greater decisions.
 All right, well folks, hopefully this has helped you today.
 As always, you know, what our, our hope is you're listening to the hearts of people who want you to have a better life to make better decisions to fail and be okay with the failure.
 Just learn how to get through it, get past it, solve it, do something different, right?
 So our hope is that you take this information, you change your leadership, you change your business, you change your life, and you join us on the next episode.
 (upbeat music)
 [BLANK_AUDIO]