 On today's episode one of my favorite people on the planet that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. It is a great day because Mary Beth Forder is joining me in the studio.
 Welcome.
 I could cheer for you so that is absolutely an okay thing here.
 So for those of you that have been following us for a very long time, you know who Mary Beth is.
 Mary Beth is one of my favorite people on the planet, one of my very best friends.
 Also the spouse of one Joel Fortner who resides in the building resides in the building.
 Well, he's in trouble maybe.
 He's a trouble at home he's residing in the building here.
 Mary Beth for six solid years, amazing years was personal assistant to me for
 over when we were at Dave Ramsey's. I don't even know how to say that.
 It's just so funny to put give the title. It was more like just you know best friend in the office.
 Just great person. That's that's a better title. There you go. Always the face of the team for us.
 Always just you know handling things with the team and making sure that I stayed somewhat alive
 insane because man I found my old calendar by the way. Do you remember what I used to have?
 Landwritten ones. The handwritten calendars. I used to have three calendars just because we were so
 insanely busy. Or you were just insane. That's probably it. That is probably it.
 And so for some reason I still kept it. I was going to throw it away and I was like no I'm keeping this
 because it's a great reminder of I never running that hard ever again.
 Oh my gosh. It was nuts. It was nuts. Yeah. And I don't like I kept you kind of
 either sainer insane by having to pull all that together. The jury still out.
 The jury still out. But today we are talking about parenting and we've got some fantastic stuff
 that we're going to be discussing today. One of my favorite stories from the God Children or one
 of the God Children. We have many God Children. I have two parents in the studio today. Brian's in here
 as well. Two different parents with that I have that have God Children of mine. No wait.
 There are my God Children. Your children are my God Children. There we go. Four two parents of four
 God Children. Wow. Christ does math on the show. That works out. That's a well done. That was
 well done right there. Right. So today we're going to be talking about a lot of stuff from the parenting
 side. Struggles experiences. What it's like, you know, some of the fears that you experienced
 in before raising kids, even just moving in the direction of raising kids and some fantastic things that
 have happened since. So we're going to be talking about all of that when we come back right after this.
 Hey folks, if you're feeling stuck anxious, not good enough or held back in life,
 then you need to go through our next level life. That's why we created this two-day event process.
 The power of next level life is that it helps you discover your specific root system.
 Why you believe what you do, how you make decisions and why you are where you are in life.
 You learn the things that are holding you back in life and how to overcome them. You'll come
 away having found healing and ready to start living with purpose and authenticity. So if you're
 ready to stop struggling, and if you're ready to find greater peace, then head over to
 Cryslacardo.com/nextlevellife. The next level life is waiting for you. That's Cryslacardo.com/nextlevellife.
 Alright, we are back and we're going to be talking through a lot of parenting stuff today
 with the fabulous Mary Beth Forderner. We're going to be talking through a root system struggles.
 We're going to be talking about what it's like as a couple raising kids. One of the things I wanted to
 start off with is the process of going into having kids, thoughts, fears, diet.
 The birds and the bees process is going into having kids. We're going to leave that for
 that's a completely different show that we probably won't ever air. When you are going to have kids.
 How old is this? He's eight? Nine years ago, what were you experiencing or even before that?
 I was mostly excited we were ready to have kids. I was definitely there were some fears about whether
 or not I knew how to be a good parent. I hadn't parented before obviously. Especially when it comes to
 the idea of having a daughter. I don't know, I didn't really have the fears towards having a son,
 but the idea of having a daughter and not having a good relationship with her, not knowing how to raise
 or not knowing how to be a good mom to a daughter. There was definitely some fears surrounding that.
 Interesting enough, I always say God gives you what you need first.
 Josiah was the first. Easy as little baby in the world. Easy little baby boy. Super high sea,
 most likely high theoretical in there as well. What was that like? Kind of amazing. He's been a great
 little kid from, you know, gosh, even in the womb except for the fact that he did beat me up a little bit.
 But no, I mean everything about him was no. That's easy. Especially his days. He's
 much larger now. He's always been so compliant and pretty easy to parent. He's been the good
 and it's interesting. They're both good kids. He's been the easy kid. They are both fabulous children.
 And the interesting thing is is that, you know, four people to know going into this, they are
 the many versions of you in Joel. Yes, yes they are. Josiah is such a many version of Joel,
 at least is such a many version of you. Even looking like you guys. I mean it's amazing how much
 they look like each of you. It's so fun to see every now and then you'll see a different side.
 Like, you know, if I'm hanging out with Josiah, it's Joel Joel Joel, Mary Beth. Oh wow.
 Yeah, funny. Like, you'll have comments or jokes. He has your sense of humor.
 Oh, he told his first joke the other way. The first one that he made up by himself. Yes.
 Oh, what kind of tree is the most sick? That's a great question. I don't know.
 A sick amore. Oh my gosh. That did he just like he totally came up with it. I'm just like,
 and he was he was at gymnastics and telling everybody, I'm like, oh my gosh, here's so funny.
 I can see his little eyes going. Did you think that was funny? That was good. Right?
 Oh my gosh. I love it. So Josiah, great first child, easy child.
 Then you're pregnant again. Yes. And some fears are coming about. Yeah, well, first of all,
 Josiah was only nine months old. Elise was not expected. And then I was sick all the time with her.
 And I just, it was a struggle. I'm like, I'm not excited about having this child.
 And then the fears of like, what if it's a daughter? Am I going to be a good mom? How can I
 parent to children that are this young? Well, how can I parent to children? Well, just so many fears
 came up. And especially that fear of relationship. Yeah. It's an important one for us to hit this
 because there's a lot of people out there, moms and dads that have that concern of like,
 what if I don't know how to have this relationship? What if I don't know how to parent? Well, like
 you were saying, you know, am I going to screw my kid up, right? Yeah. So how did you, how were you
 internalizing that? What were you thinking through? What were the things you were saying in your head
 if it came out and it was a girl? You know, that's like great question, Chris, because that was a
 long time ago. That was a while ago. What was in my head? I think a lot of it for me was just
 can I do this? Can I have a good relationship with a daughter? Am I able? Am I capable of doing that?
 And what do I do? How do I parent her in order to make that happen? And I just, I didn't know.
 Also, something that's interesting to point at is you are the one daughter
 with how many brothers? I have three brothers. Three brothers. So you grew up with three boys.
 So relationships with boys, that's not difficult. Right. Right. All these
 types of boys were easy. That's what I knew. Yeah, that's what you knew. You weren't ever a tomboy,
 but again, you had brothers. So you guys went out and did, where I can't remember, are you?
 I'm number three. Number three. So you guys are always out doing things together. If
 boys wanted to go do. We played in the woods. We played ball. I mean, every now and then they
 would generously allow me to have my Barbies with their G. I Jo's and playing, but it didn't last
 long because they went into war. And I'm like, "Hi, Barbie, doesn't want to play war!" But, you know.
 So again, we can see there's a lot of elements that my bring in these fears.
 And then you have said child. Yes. And beautiful, amazing, at least. Yes.
 It comes out. Yes. And what happened? Pretty much fell in love immediately. And Mama instincts kicked
 in. And it was like, "This is my precious baby girl." And I think the fear dissipated to a degree
 at that point. It wasn't something that was, you know, I'm a new mama mode. So I wasn't really like
 in fear mode at that point. But over time, you know, that struggle was still kind of there.
 So we're going to shift to something that selfish for me, which is the grudge that I had for so
 long that Joel Fortner came and swept you off of your feet and took you away. But then I got to
 get you back here. See? See? He's got help. Get me back. Plus Joel, plus God, children. It's fabulous.
 When you came back, we had the fantastic opportunity. And you went through next level of life.
 Yeah. Yeah. Was that like, well emotional. It was tough. It was tough. You have it. You have
 the worst of anybody who comes through next level of life because I know you intimately sit
 in out. Yes. So I know where you're pushing. I know where the struggles. Yeah. So I mean, it was
 tough. But I mean, I learned so much about myself. And I learned so much about where those struggles
 with relationships, like why I have those struggles. I learned how to resolve a lot of those issues.
 And so man, it's like night and day difference. And it's so funny because, you know, we were talking
 about this before the show. And I'm just like, I'm trying to remember back then because, like,
 I remember having those fears. But now that I'm so far, I mean, what was that? Four or five years ago?
 Yeah. That was probably at least five years ago. It's hard to remember how much struggle. But I
 look back and I remember I'm like, there was a lot of struggle. Why was that again? You know,
 because I'm so far on this side of it now. Yeah. First person to ever make me cry in the next level.
 Oh, I was saying that's what's a cheerbell. That's terrible. That's definitely terrible. I think that's
 such a profound thing to state is I remember there were struggles. So only four or five years ago,
 which again seems like a lifetime. It does seem like lifetime. But at the same time, it's only four or five
 years ago. But so much has changed from that experience, things that you've put in place. And that
 you've been working on, that it's even difficult to remember the struggles as they were back then.
 That's pretty fantastic. I mean, that's amazing to go, gosh, now I don't really remember life
 with those struggles. Yeah. Because of the things we've put in place. It's freeing. Yeah. So what has
 it been like? So before we know there's these fear of relationship, fear of am I going to be able
 to raise a daughter, fear of all this stuff? How is it now? Oh my gosh, that little girl has my heart.
 She is, I mean, I don't know the words to say. She's my little baby, you know.
 So it's funny. Again, I'm like, why did I have those fears again? Because it's, we have a great
 relationship. And we talk about things all the time. And it was really sweet. She had a sense of humor.
 She got your way of processing. We were at the park and two of the boys ended up tagging along.
 We're fostering. That's why there's two boys. There's no. And so she let the two boys go ahead
 and then she just grabs my hand and she's like walking through the park holding my hand. And I'm like,
 this is what I never thought I would have. You know, so it was pretty awesome. It is funny to
 watch. I don't know if it's funny, maybe it's enduring actually. Like if she's out, because she will be
 like you with her brother, you know, the brothers out there, riding bikes, skateboard,
 roller skating, whatever it is, she will be out there in the mix of it and playing with that,
 doing the tough things and if she gets hurt, she will go like literally right by Joel.
 Yeah. Oh, she wants his mom. If she falls out, she gets hurt. Everything is mom. I need mom right now.
 Go straight to mom, which is again, what an amazing, obviously relationship with that connection
 that you have with her as well. So that doesn't mean that well, I don't know. Does that mean
 that you've lost all struggles or fears or insecurities when it comes to parenting? So I still have,
 you know, those concerns or fears or sometimes like feeling failures or whatever will creep in.
 But I now know how to deal with that and how to... I guess lead myself through that. Like,
 why do I feel like a failure in this moment? Okay, it's this, am I a failure? And okay, and like
 just kind of work through those issues. If I'm feeling out of control or any of those things,
 I just now better know how to work myself out of that negative spot and into what is true and into
 what is, you know, what is right and what is. Yeah. So here's an interesting perspective
 before having kids and again, not a fear of having a son, but have a fear of having a daughter,
 their relationship, all that kind of fun stuff. All of that is focused on you. All that is focused on
 your abilities, all that is focused on, you know, how are you going to handle this? What's it going to
 be like for you? All of that on the backside of the next level of life? One of the things I love is
 watching you parent and watching because it is, yes, definitely their struggles and they're
 definitely there's things that come up, but your comfort level is so amazing. I mean, it's just a
 you know, an incredible columnist. Things are happening, things are going on and you just respond.
 You're not responding and it's not to say that you haven't. We've had good conversations over the years of
 what do I do with this situation here, right? Yeah. But when things are happening, the great thing is
 is that you spend way less time worrying about you because what are you worried about in that moment?
 The little people. The little people. Because that's the, that's, you know, I want to
 fix what's going on with them and it's not like, oh, am I a failure? Am I this or that? It's like
 let's fix the situation. Let's solve the problem. Because you have a child who may be feeling like a failure.
 You're, you get to see this is the greatest thing about walking through the process.
 Is now you're looking at a little person who's struggling with things that you used to struggle with
 and didn't have the tools to solve that stuff. So what is that like leading them through their own
 little fears or their own little struggles? It's actually kind of fun. I feel a little twisted saying that,
 but like, not that I'm having fun seeing them struggle, but it's fun being able to like have the
 tools to help them in those struggles. Yeah, I'm thinking about in particular there was this one time
 that I was, I don't know, I must have been having a bad day because Joel did something and it was like
 one of those on par with not loading the dishwasher right kind of thing so it's really stupid, right?
 And for some reason it just irritated me and I'm like standing there grumbling about it while the kids
 over here. So then I'm like crap. So we go over to the kids and so we have this whole conversation about like
 did mommy respond correctly? No mommy you did not. And boy, did they love that, right? They're just like,
 "This is great." And so, okay, well, how should I have responded? And then, well, why was I
 completely well? I was complaining because I was making assumption about what Daddy was doing.
 Well, it turns out that his way was actually better. Don't let Joel listen to this episode by the
 way. But then I'm like, oh, mommy made a bad assumption. So then we talk about that. And we have this
 conversation, man, the kids just love it when I point out my own stuff. And I'm like, because then
 they come back and they came up and they came up and I remember that time and I'm like, yes, little punk,
 I remember. The amazingly, what do we do before this? We protect ourselves. Oh, yeah, we want to hide.
 We put it all up. Yeah. We can't allow our kids to see that we failed at something. We can't allow our
 kids to see that we made a bad assumption. We can't allow ourselves to, we can't allow our kids to see
 that the other spouse was correct. And we were wrong. And admitting those failures, these are by far
 the biggest parenting issues that we see is not being able to be vulnerable with the kids. Yeah.
 And what happens when the child sees, oh, my gosh, it's okay to be vulnerable. Well, I mean, gosh,
 I just, I've seen them be more vulnerable. And I've, they've come to me when they make mistakes. And they
 don't, they know they're not a bad person. They made a bad choice. And there are consequences for bad choices.
 But it changes the whole dynamic of even being able to talk about problems. Because now they're not
 fighting to protect themselves, fighting to put up a wall. Right. Right. Uh, one of my favorite
 stories is coming up soon. We're going to talk about. And the reason why we're doing this, this episode of
 that, what is that parenting look like when you're using the right tools, it's just a profound
 but before we get there, I want to talk about what has it been like parenting in the process after
 next level of life. So your personality style, we've got a lot of I.S. and C. Yeah. And there,
 how has it, how was, how was your growth and healing from next level of life? How has that helped you
 to parent like your level of capacity or the way that you parent the kids? How has that helped out?
 Well, it's funny because I think everything has become easier. And things that would cause me to
 shut down before, especially like that high-s, I am not perfect, I'm not, I'm failing at everything.
 I'm hurting somebody. I'm hurting screwness. All of that stuff, man, it would put me in this like,
 what's the word? I'm just frozen. I can't, I can't do something.
 Paralyzed from the fear or the fear or the fear of the fear. Yeah, paralyzed. Thank you.
 The struggle. And so now that's not almost never an issue. You know, and I'm able to just
 work through things. So that's the biggest, I think for me, what, right at what I feel is like,
 that's the biggest change. It's just, man, things just seem easier. Yeah, both of us have a lot of S.
 Both of us have that first half of life where that is such a paralyzing piece of when you get to that
 place of, oh my gosh, I'm a bad person because I've hurt somebody. Even if I do not have the
 perspective that I've actually hurt somebody because a lot of stuff has come our way of saying,
 you're the problem, but I don't even have anything to do with it. Yeah, but you're the problem anyway,
 it's because I'm not happy. Yeah. I'm not happy. Your, your, your my issue. And I got to say that is
 been one of the greatest things in life is having that tool to go hold on a second. Let me first
 just gain quality perspective. Did I screw something? Did I, if so, take the responsibility, that's great.
 Hey, mommy was wrong. You know, this is, I should never responded this way. When you take the
 responsibility because it's something that you did, man, it's easy, but it's fantastic when you don't
 cause yourself to freeze up because you're taking responsibility for something that you should not
 be taking, which that paralysis is just, it's just not only a terrible on a person, but the same
 things we're discussing about what you're teaching and training your kids on, you do the same thing
 if you're stuck in that place, that paralysis. And I got to say, I love, so when Josiah was born,
 I came on up to DC, we did the baptismal, right? What was the ceremony you guys did? It was a baptism.
 It was a baptism. Yeah. So, I'm going through your local church at the time. And when he was, oh gosh,
 no, I guess this was when a lease was born. They came out the second time because he was now jumping off the
 couch. Okay. So this is when a lease was born and I remember just the confidence that he had and
 the lack of fear that he had. And I remember standing there and he was just jumping off the couch into my
 arms and jumping off the couch into arms. And then we stopped and I had turned away and I was looking
 and I don't know, you and I were talking or Joel and I were talking something was going on and out of the corner
 of my eye, I see this body flying through the air and praise God, Jedi reflexes, I turned around and caught him
 and held them and thought, what in the world made you think that you could do that? Like, how were you not,
 you know, how were you not seeing I wasn't watching you? I was in turn towards you and everything.
 He's been eating mental and he just trusts you. The amount of trust and the lack of fear blew me away.
 Yeah. Like I sat there holding him going, he's going to have a life of this.
 Yeah. He's going to grow without that fee, you know, being able to, I mean, he just did something
 that, oh my gosh, little me, I would not have done and had I done it. I'd have been worried that
 the person, you know, even at 18 months, I probably would have been worried, but it was just a fabulous moment
 of just going, you were fearless in that moment. Yeah, that one's on Joel.
 When he was a little idiotic and starting, I mean, he started walking at 10 months. I mean, he was early
 at all active things and he would start climbing and Joel's like, you've got to let him do it,
 do not hold him back. He's like, let him figure it out. And I remember, it was his 18 months old. I was
 nine months pregnant with Elise and he's climbing this 10-foot rope ladder and I'm like, oh, Jesus,
 please do not let him fall, but I mean, he could do it. Yeah. And that was, and that was the thing of
 Joel pushing on me to just don't go mama protective on him, let him figure things out.
 And so that was a growing thing for me, but you know, look at him now. He can do all the things.
 And so now he's, he climbs everything. Everything. For many years, it's been me.
 I've been the jungle gym. I've been the jungle gym for both Josiah and Elise.
 So, and I go back to the days of Emma and Abby and I was there jungle gym when they would just
 hang off of my arm. Yeah, that's exactly the picture I've taken of Brian's. He just spread his arms
 out there. Time I've got my arms out both kids hanging off my arms. But Josiah will climb.
 I mean, there's just so little fear in that way. It's amazing. And at least, too.
 So, question, how have you guys, obviously Joel is a facilitator here. He went through next
 level life, you know, back then, you know, all the stuff that we teach, how has that helped you guys?
 How do you guys stay on the same page when it comes to parenting? We talk. That's the time to get out.
 What? That is shocking. Revolutionary or other? No, seriously, though. I mean, we do have regular
 date nights, which I think just helps us just stay unified. There have been things that have come up
 where we are not on the same page. And, you know, I was sharing this one story earlier, just
 Joel made a decision and I was not happy with it at all. And being my high S self,
 I just let it go and let it go and let it go and let it go. Thinking, he'll say the error of his ways.
 Right? Of course. He'll figure this out. I mean, in all the years we've known each other,
 this has never been a tactic that has worked. But for some reason, try try again. Right? So I just let it go.
 Well, finally, I get to the point. I'm so good in mad. I mean, I am ready to go to war.
 And then we had a date night. So my perfect timing. Do you have the right time for this?
 Or do you have any leads? Let's fight it out. But, finally, after all this time, it finally
 dawns on me. Hey, before you have this conversation, maybe you should pray about it. So I do.
 And in that, I felt like God was saying ask a question. And so, of course, my first question was,
 are you happy about this? But I eventually got to the point where I'm like, is this important to him?
 And so we had the conversation. And he's like, no, not really. We just, you know, we hadn't communicated
 about it about it. And okay, I mean, it was resolved. Right? And it's so funny because I was so thinking mad
 for months ago. I was so thrilled. All the build up. And I'm like, how far not learned anything from my next
 other life? I mean, really. But the truth is prior to our next other life, this would have come to a massive
 fight. And it would have been one where it would have taken him considerable effort to convince me
 that he does care about me when in truth, we just hadn't communicated. That's all it is. And I'm like,
 praise God for next little life because man, that would have been a fight. Well, and even changing
 your question, the initial question you're hitting is, you know, I'm going to pummel you by asking
 the question. And then changing it to, well, let me just see his perspective. He's it important.
 Yeah, because what if the answer was yes? Well, if the answer was yes, then it was like, well, shoot.
 All right, now we have a problem, but we're on the same page now. Right. And we can figure out
 how to solve the problem. How do we solve? Right. We're now united in solving a problem instead of
 fighting each other and treating each other poorly. I mean, nobody wins. Right. Like that.
 Yeah. You know, so it gets to a point where it's like, okay, ask the question, get on the same
 page and figure out how you can solve the problem together. Yeah. So all of this brings me to
 a one of my favorite stories. And I want you to share the story of a lease at the at the park
 with the other kids because, and this just happened not too long ago, but the response,
 well, gosh, I don't want to just share the story and then I'll speak. I don't know what to give
 to you. Go ahead. All right. So we get to the park where we're with some new friends and the mom and
 I are at the swings, pushing the little ones and all the big kids are playing. And I know that a lease
 has struggled with the one older boy because he's a dominant personality and like her mother,
 she can struggle with dominant personalities. And so they're over there playing, well, all this
 sudden, there is this scream and tears. And we look at each other and the moms make their way to the
 merit ground. And can I tell you all of the children went silent? It was like the moms are coming,
 right? And so I get a lease down and the other mom on the way over says to me, I have no problem
 believing that my son had part in this. So she's like, what a good mom. She's like, so she goes over to
 address him. Well, I'm trying to get some feedback out of a lease of like, what even happened?
 Well, this girl's in the depths of despair. I mean, I mean, it went on and on and I finally get out
 from her. The word mom took 30 seconds just to say that, whoa, no, I probably can solve it. We said
 for threats in there exactly. And the whole thing was like that. But it finally came out the kids
 who are making fun of me. Well, she's never been made fun of by strangers before, maybe her brother
 from time to time, but not from others. And she is just devastated. And so the other mom in the
 meantime is talking to her son and is like, hey, were you part of the problem? And he's like, yes,
 and she's like, well, you need to fix it. He's like, okay, and he starts to go over to the playground.
 And she's like, hey, a lease is over the other direction. And he's like, I wasn't making fun of a lease.
 I was making fun of that kid. So anyway, on the way home, because at this point, I mean, the playing is over.
 Right. We're done. So we're walking home. And I share that with Elise. And she just processes on her
 walk home six years old. Six years old. Yeah. And so we get almost home and she's down to the whimpering
 stage. And she's like, mama, I just, I just feel bad that I made an assumption about him.
 I know, I was like, baby girl. So we get six years old. Six years old. She's gone from the tragedy of
 being made fun of the trauma of being made fun of by a strange dominant kid older, obviously,
 right? Yeah. Yeah. Several several years older to hearing a different perspective.
 And in your mind, you're not really expecting. I'm assuming you're not expecting anything from it. You just
 read the perspective. I was expecting her to continue to cling to me for the rest of the day.
 That's what yeah. And within a certain time from the walk, which is only about a five minute walk.
 Yeah. Then she's feeling bad that she made an assumption. Yeah. And then we get home. And we're talking about like,
 okay, because I think there was another child that was saying to her that she's no fun.
 And I'm like, baby girl, please, do you know yourself? I don't think I know a more fun person on
 the planet. You're a closer. You're a closer fun person. You're fun. You're fun. There's, I mean,
 that kid's just straight up wrong. But, you know, we talked about, well, why might he have said that?
 Well, he wasn't getting his way. And so he was being kind. And so, you know, we get home.
 And out of the blue, she just goes, I guess I should have just been like fat cat on a mat.
 I'm like dying because I know what this means. We have this little phonics reader and there's
 fat cat on a mat. And fat cat sees a bee and flees up a tree. And then in the course of this story,
 there's a nest of eggs that falls down. Well, Jake Snake wants to make a cake and big
 wants to do something in this other character. And fat cat just says, no, no, no. And finally,
 you know, they say to her, you're no fun. You're this, you're that fat cat just ignores them
 and carries on with what she's doing, which is hatching the eggs. But it is so funny because I'm just like,
 man, I read my kids these stories of like valiant characters that have such courage and empathy and
 trying to and she gets her lesson from fat cat on the mat. It's a row and out the chronicles of
 Narnia. I'm just kidding. I would never do that. But how amazing to see this and I believe even the next
 day was it the next day or something Joel had? Yeah, probably the next morning. Joel had,
 did he ask her, did she just bring it up? I don't remember who brought it up because they were outside
 used about sleep for work and they were chatting outside. But she was just like, I made an assumption
 and I know that it's not even true. Like I know these things aren't true. And so like for her to
 see all that, it's just amazing. Yeah. So here's what I want to back up. But here's why this is so
 ridiculously important because had you not walked through the process and started implementing the
 change and had the tools, then situations like the dishwasher wouldn't have happened.
 situations like the date night conversation wouldn't have happened. And here's the crazy thing.
 Those fears, those concerns at the beginning could have continued to have become actual reality.
 Right. Could have been self-fulfilling prophecy where there isn't great relationship,
 where in, you know, she's six now and seven years from now, you guys are at each other's
 throats and because the relationship isn't good. And instead what's happening because you're
 walking through this process, you're using these tools, a six-year-old child has the opportunity
 to look at a situation with perspective and go, well now I feel bad that I assumed something I shouldn't
 have done that. I shouldn't have been like fat cat on a mat. I shouldn't like fat cat on a mat and just
 let it go. Just let it go. How in the world? I mean, like what did you experience in that moment?
 Oh my gosh. Pride. Yeah. Just I just wanted to take that little girl in my arms and just give her
 the biggest hug. She, I mean, gosh, she's six and she's figuring out things that I didn't figure
 out till, you know. 33. Yeah, right. I'm like, "Tang, well good for you, little girl."
 Well done. I wish I had me as a pair of what I was. I'm so awesome. I was just bringing it back to
 myself again. It's great. But seriously, that pride of being able to look down at your little
 girl and go, if you have this at six. Yeah. What does that mean at 10? At 15? Yeah. How are you looking
 at, you know, the way guys look at you when you're a, you know, hopefully much later teenage,
 you know, girl, young woman, how do you experience how they treat you? How do you experience how
 they're responding to your experience? How do you experience other girls if they're being, you know,
 caddy, whatever, how do you experience these things and what are your thought processes? Because of your
 example, the example of both you and Joel and the things that you've been through a six-year-old
 has this process in her brain. Yeah. It's just powerful. Well done, my dear. Well done. So good. All right.
 So here's what we're going to do. We're going to take a break. But when we come back, we're going to
 walk through pain points, which is always fun. Pain points of parenting when we come back right out to this.
 Hey, leaders. We're a long way from the problems of last year and yet for many owners and
 leaders, their businesses still look the same. So let me ask you a question. What changes have you made
 to ensure you're stronger by the end of this year than you were last year? Here's the thing. If we don't
 take new action, then we can't expect anything to change. Now is the time to make those necessary improvements.
 It's time to pour new life into your business, your team and your leadership by learning and implementing
 new and sharper skills that will give your business the boost it needs to succeed. Now I know you want
 to lead your team out of the past, it into a better, stronger position. That's why it's time to
 sign up for the next level leadership live event that is happening this month. Now listen, this is not
 some positive thinking seminar. It's a strategic thinking workshop designed just for you as business owners
 and leaders. You'll come away equipped with an actionable plan in hand to immediately increase your
 team's capacity and stability. How expert driven workshops where you'll sit down together with our coaches
 and design a better future for you and your team members. Imagine returning to your business
 and your team with newly defined key result areas for your most important team members. Imagine having
 the tools in hand to give your team a new level of ownership and responsibility empowering them to
 succeed like never before. This event is happening soon, the 28th through the 30th of April, so don't
 miss this opportunity. If you've been to our event before, then you already know what a game
 change of this is. On top of that, we've added brand new experiences and excursions that you will
 never forget. Registration ends on April 21st, at midnight, so don't wait. Go to
 ChrisSecurdow.com/live-event or text live-event one word to the number 444222 for more information
 and to get your tickets. Again, that's ChrisSecurdow.com/live-event. Don't miss this opportunity to
 change your business, team and leadership for the better. All right, we are back and we're talking
 about the talk about pain points as a parent. Pain points as a parent. Show and we're just going to
 walk through different experiences and different thoughts and things that you've experienced
 and things that what we hear from parents a lot. When people are coming through next level of life,
 or thinking about going through it, some of the things that they struggle with. From your perspective,
 having been through this now for many years and walking through all this, the first thing that one of the
 biggest things that we hear is people that are afraid that they're going to mess up their kids. What would you
 say to that person? Go through the next level of life. Go through it. So let's unpack that. What is
 why? What does that mean? So for me, gosh, there were so many assumptions I had expectations I had,
 fears I had, all these things, and honestly some of them I didn't even realize, they were so deep in
 me that's just the paradigm that I live my life through. So going through next level of life,
 man, it just brought all these things to light. And then I'm able to deal with that and to work through
 a lot of those things, it makes changes. And I mean, it's not like we made changes overnight. I mean,
 we are five-ish give or take years down the road. Now, but now I'm at a place where those things are so
 minimal and like I said earlier, man, it's hard to even remember that time before, but it's because I've
 practiced, I've used the tools that I got through the next level of life and practiced them and practiced
 them and got better and got faster. And so now it's more natural to live this way than that way.
 So another side turned here, what was it like going through with me facilitating that process?
 You could let the SaaS life feel free. I'm like, well, I did make you cry first. That is true.
 That is true. No, it was not, you know, it's funny because you are one of my best friends. So
 on one hand it was like, I don't want to share things, you know, but when I chose to be like,
 all right, let's just do this thing. Man, first of all, no judgment. Thank you for that,
 by the way, that's why you're one of my best friends. But that's just who you are and that's who my husband is.
 You know, that's which is why I married him. But when I was vulnerable and opened up to do that,
 like, man, you just walked me through these things and it was like, okay, I mean, there were some
 tough tough points. I mean, I'm not gonna lie. There were tears at times, but it wasn't because
 you were being unkind or I was being judged. Or any of that. It was because I was seeing
 truth for the first time in some cases ever. And I was like, oh, man, I have been messing some of
 these things up. Okay, now I can now I can change. And it wasn't like, oh, man, I'm such a bad
 person because of messing things up. It was like, man, I now have something, I have tools. I can move
 into that. I can understand that. I have a tool to change the situation. Yeah. And the me crying part,
 we should probably clarify is because there were tough moments. And I'm watching you,
 facilitating you through this difficult part. And I would literally say, I don't know if I ever told you this.
 Surely I did. But there were times I'm like, I'm taking a break in 15 minutes and I'll give her a hug
 then because there's so many times I wanted to rescue you. Like give you a hug at the moment. We're
 walking through this thing and it's so painful because that's the first day is tough. It's not easy.
 But oh, my gosh, is it worth it? Yeah. When we get on the other side, I'm all all this stuff back
 together. And you know, even like what you're saying now of, I don't even really remember what it was
 like back then. Right? So for everybody who's hearing this and is struggling right now,
 how is hope? How great is it to look? Think, oh, I might not even understand what it's like to
 feel this way for years from now. Yeah. If I do this, if I can just get this process then in my life,
 but I remember those times of just going, I'm taking a break soon. I can give her a hug then.
 Just what you gotta keep going. Keep pushing push because you've got to work. Yeah. Yep.
 You gotta get through that moment to that place of going, ah, this is why this over here exists.
 Yep. This is why this thing here is happening. And this is why I keep making this decision.
 Yeah. And then roll forward to a frustration that you're having in your marriage. And instead of going
 and airing out the frustration with attacks, you switch it around and ask a very loving
 person. Yeah. Concerning question, is this something that's important to you because if it is,
 we just gotta change something else. Yeah. What a completely different. Oh, yeah.
 Of handling that. So just so powerful. All right. So back to the fear of messing up my kids.
 Well, you pretty well answered that. What about the fear of or not the fear, but the feeling out of
 control. And I want to, I want to kind of hit this again because there are certain personalities
 styles, Brian Alex. We have no judgment. Except for you. That well for our higher season. We literally
 just did a strap plan the other day with somebody who, when we save this phrase, certain personality
 styles don't align with it because in their mind, out of control means that I'm not controlling
 something. And when you say the word, because I did the same thing, we had this conversation a long time
 ago. And so I'm sitting there at the going through a strap plan and I go, you know, because you're
 feeling out of control in that situation. Because no, I'm like, okay, I'm sorry. Let me ask it this way.
 Do you feel frustrated? Yes. Do you feel emotional? Yes. Do you feel angry? Yes. But you don't
 feel out of control. No, of course not. And then it was so funny. I like now think about what we just
 walked through and so much of it is definition. Right. So as we say the feeling out of control, I'm
 saying this for the people that are listening, if it makes more sense to say the times that you feel
 frustrated, you're angry, you're whatever that's fine. Let's go with that. What do you tell the person
 who's telling themselves the lies, you know, the negative self-talk or they're feeling heavily
 frustrated, angry out of control? Oh, man, I was there. I was there. I mean, there were days and, you know,
 little baby land is a tough place sometimes. We are so put in that sign up on your house now.
 Baby land. Now I think, gosh, I don't even, I'm not even sure how to respond to this because I think about
 when I'm feeling out of control now because there are still those moments that come up where
 man, my kids are disobedient or something happens or whatever, I can now go, okay, why am I out of control?
 Why am I frustrated? Why am I feeling these feelings? And I can't hang them up by their
 belt. But I'm not a hush somewhere. Man, you're easy. How much are you? You're fucking way worse than that.
 But like, sometimes I do have no my kids in time.
 Sure, you've been to my house. No, but sometimes like I do have to just step away in process for
 minute. It's not, this isn't a magic. Oh, now I can immediately start responding perfectly. I mean,
 I still, there are times that I still have to step away and process and be like, okay, what is going on?
 And then I'm like, okay, now I can go and deal with my kids with a more gracious spirit,
 and just, yeah, they're still going to be consequences for disobedience. But they're not going to be given
 in anger or frustration or rage or like, you horrible child. You know, it's a very different way of responding.
 And let's talk to that, because we hit that a lot. We talk about it in parenting.
 We talk about it in next level of life. We talk about it in leadership, because it doesn't matter
 if you're five years old or you're 35 years old. The person leading that person needs to
 understand choices and consequences. What has that been like for you guys? Because I remember in the early
 days when we were talking through that it's like, how does that even work? Right, God, yeah,
 how did that conversation? Holy moly. Yeah. And now I mean, it's just, well, tell what was that like
 for you? Well, I mean, I was like, what do I do with these people? They're little and they're making me crazy.
 But when I learned how to approach choices and consequences, hey, listen, you know, you can choose this,
 or you can choose that. And here's the consequence for this. And here's the consequence for that.
 One is happens to be a good consequence. And one, not so good. Hey, you make your choice. Which one do you
 want? And then man, it's all in them. Yeah. So, you know, Josiah is so compliant. So when he was little,
 he was like, it was like, baby, your little Thomas stuffed train is going to go away if you choose
 to fight us on this. Or you can choose to brush your teeth because that was one of the things.
 You know, he did not. He went through phase of, I don't want to brush my teeth. Like, or we can brush
 your teeth. And you can have your little Thomas stuffed train in bed tonight. Oh, that boy. Man,
 that's what he worked really well. Immediately, immediately. And at least it's so funny because it's like,
 everything was Thomas to train back then. Oh, my gosh. That's so funny. Then, which is so funny
 because I'm not a Thomas. But, you know, these are the things you do as a parent. So, at least though,
 it's like, I'm going to take your stuff puppy dog away. Okay. What? Well, then you're going to
 lose this. Okay. My, oh my gosh. Finally. This is not working. I mean, we finally, we just had to
 figure out. It took us time to figure out what is going to work with her because she's a different boy.
 Yeah. She's a different child. You know, and it was funny because little time out, you know,
 they'd have to sit against the wall and the kitchen next to me for time out. And just I was like,
 okay, you know, and at least it's like, I'm just, no, I'm too just stand up and walk on a time out. She
 didn't care. She was like, no, I'm not sitting here. I'm like, oh my gosh. Child,
 legit was it dresses? Dresses was one of the things. I mean, this little girl, she wears dressed as she's
 outside right now playing in the mud at home in her beautiful pink dress. And I'm just like, well,
 it doesn't fit you anymore. So carry on. Whatever. What else did you find? What else did you discover?
 Worked. Oh, gosh. Dresses is her big thing. Every now and then because we are fostering and
 we do have to do that little time out with the two little ones. Every now and then, I will throw
 time out at them and it's so unexpected that they're like, what? Mom put me in time out. And now it's
 like, it's so funny because now that almost works more. But, you know, it could be her roller skates.
 She loves roller skating. She loves roller skating. So it's just, it's like, what does she love?
 And what is, you know, I'm not going to take her roller skates away for three weeks because she,
 you know, did you want little fun? I want to hurt you. Right. You're making a bad decision. Let's
 teach you good decision. Right. You can continue on with the bad decision and you get a bad
 consequence or you can make a really good decision and you get a good consequence. Yeah. And it's
 fabulous. But I love, you know, there've been times, you know, being over there having dinner or
 something like that. And somebody's doing something that in any other U.R. Joe's like, baby,
 you can choose to do that. It's like, I'm, I'm so proud. I just such a happy moment because you see
 the child respond immediately. Yeah. Immediately. Which wasn't always the case. You know,
 as you're putting this in place, it took time. But they got to understand your serious and this,
 it really sucks. But here's the greatest thing about it is you're teaching them high levels of
 quality decision making. Like you're literally teaching them, do I, there is going to be a consequence,
 which is absolutely the opposite of what so many parents are teaching their kids nowadays. They allow them
 to make stupid decisions and then they get to be enabled or be victims or, you know, so on and so forth.
 And instead, you're prepping your kids for life. Yeah. Because they're looking at situations and going,
 do I do that? And even in an at least situation, I bet you there are times she weighs out the
 consequence. And the consequence would be worth it. Probably. I'm sure. But it helps them to make those decisions.
 But I think, you know, the other really great thing about it is actually the relationship. Because
 it's no more me against them. And I'm not making them a bad person. They're choosing. Like this is like,
 well, this is what you chose. And Mama loves you. And I'm really sorry that you have to have that
 consequence. I don't, I don't want you to lose your roller skates. I don't want you to lose your bike,
 you know. But man, you made that choice. Yeah. So that's what happens. Yeah. And one of the
 other things that I love is that because you do this, there isn't the victim mentality. You know,
 once in a great while, just like every kid, there's something that they will do. Every kid's going to
 do something that is just like, whoa, what was that? And you can see the immediate response of,
 that was a bad decision. Not. Yeah. It's not my fault. I'm a, you know,
 yeah. Literally you see the immediate, that was a bad choice. You know, you can see, you can recognize it.
 And the great thing is is that your kids have so much confidence to be able to do whatever that
 along with that is going to come, well, you probably should not have jumped off of the, you know,
 bookcase, right? That was a bad idea. But there are some natural consequences.
 Just I jumped off the top of our privacy fence. And the thing is nobody was around because he had
 run home to grab something and he couldn't open the gate for whatever reason. So he's just like,
 I'm just going to climb it and jump off of it. Well, he twisted his ankle. And like, well, natural
 consequences, baby, I think that one through. Yeah. And the, the good thing is is that they,
 you never see them be victims in the situation. Right. Right. It's an immediate, I know I did wrong.
 Yeah. I know that wasn't a smart thing to do. You know, they don't look at you and go,
 the fence just messed up my ankle. Right. Right. Right. You know, if they do, because you guys allow them to
 be kids. So they might come flying off a couch somewhere on the something. It's just, it's okay.
 There's nothing wrong with this. They get to be kids, right? But if they land on one of the other
 kids, and it's a, they hurt the other kid, it is a, hey, and it's, it really doesn't have to go
 much further than that. Right. It's an immediate, yep. That was bad, not a, I'm a victim. And I think that's
 just so incredibly powerful. So with that, you haven't been using guilt. You haven't been using fear.
 You haven't been using, unless there's stuff I don't see when I'm not around. You have a been using
 you know, what's the rest of the house? They don't manipulate. And you know, I have the kids
 from time to time. There's been multiple weekends. You guys have gone away. I've got the kids. And it's
 not, it's just not there. Right. It's, it's just a fabulous time. So you're not using yelling and screaming
 and out of control responses. And this is what we're seeing with the kids. We're seeing this type of
 response. So we teach here the relationships circles. We speak for, we have a lot of folks who
 aren't believers that are following on the show. But we have a ton of people who are believers. And when I say
 believers, I say believers in Jesus Christ is Lord and Savior. We teach the relationships circles.
 Most important relationship, better be your relationship with God. He's the only one who hold your
 eternity in his hands. The next one. And if you look through Ephesians 4 5 and 6, it lays out this way.
 The next one is putting your spouse first. The most important human being on the planet. The next one
 is putting your kids. There's this disgusting thing that happens nowadays. And you see it a lot. And you
 see where a parent is putting the kids before the spouse. And I, I've got to say it is so horribly
 disgusting. And by the way, remember, and here's, I think the funny thing is the parent always thinks,
 you know, it can be both. It can be the moms. It can be the dads. It's more likely going to be the
 moms in this situation. You can tell it because they say things like, oh, he knows where he stands,
 which means after the kids. And for some reason, they think that, you know, they are going to be
 that attached to those kids for their lives. And they will try. But that's not actually what happens.
 You're still going to be with that spouse. Hopefully, one of the kids are gone. What has it been
 like parenting with the relationship circles in mind? You know, it's funny because you say that.
 And I think of some moms that I have hung out with that very clearly put their children above their spouse.
 And I'm like, how do you even parent well? Like, honestly, because first of all, when Joel and I have
 those moments when we are not a united front, and it makes it so much harder.
 Yeah, I mean, I think that with me and Joel on the same page, when I'm having one of those days where
 I'm like, man, I'm feeling out of control. You know, actually, I had went not terribly long ago.
 It was probably a few months back. And I called him up at work and I'm like, babe, I just lost my mind
 with the kids. And I mean, it's, it's a pretty rare thing, but we've had a lot going on. And that just,
 I mean, it happened sometimes. You know, still not a perfect person, even though I try.
 I'm just like, you know, I'm just like, I'm just like, this is where I am. Now, first of all,
 I'm not fearing judgment. We're on the same page. He loves me. He cares about me. And he's like,
 yep, yep, I understand. I've been there. And it's like, okay, what are we going to learn? Like,
 how are we going to move forward with this and not be in that place? And so having that support,
 man, I just, I can't imagine not having that and being a solid parent. Like, I just, that's
 tough. It's, you guys have had a lot going on, especially with fostering kids and fostering kids coming
 from not the world's greatest situation. And the struggles that these little babies are are going
 through. And, and I think one of the things that we expect from parents is, is, will be perfect.
 Right. You can't struggle. Right. And you know, crazy talk and crazy talk. Which I think is also brought
 the pendulum swing of all your colossal victim as a parent to your kids. Right. Right. You, I think we see
 both sides. But being able to not only have the tools, but recognize, no, I'm struggling. Yeah.
 And having a person, the most important human being in your life, to turn to and go, just letting
 you know, yeah, I need some support right now. I need some support. Yeah. Just lost my mind, not really
 sure where it is, and just talk to me in a situation. Yeah. Then instead of that battle of, well, why do you
 do that? Or well, that's stupid. Well, you know better than that. You have this completely understand,
 completely get it. Yeah. You know, let me walk through the, I'm supportive. I'm supportive. I'm supportive.
 But we still have to fix this. Right. So what are we doing going forward? Right. If you don't have that
 support, the last thing you want to do is the fix. Right. Well, and the thing is, man, if you didn't have
 that support, now I'm feeling even more out of control because I don't have, I am doing this on my own,
 you know. Yeah. Oh gosh. That's the worst. Feeling like you are the only parent because actually
 parenting. Yeah. I know there's a lot of folks listening right now that that's exactly how they feel,
 like the other parent, like they have to be the bad parent. The other parent won't stand up and do
 things or they won't take responsibility and they don't feel like they're on the same page.
 So talk about noticing worth issues or codependencies or anything like that over the,
 the, I doubt you're giving me a look like what he's talking about. Have you noticed
 worth struggles faster, easier, better. Have you noticed something that would have been a codependency
 for you that is not? I think the worst thing is probably more of a thing with me because, man,
 myself worth prenex little life. Like, I mean, I struggled with being a stay at home mom. You know,
 it's funny because I wanted to be a stay at home mom, but I had always worked, I had always contributed
 and then like all of a sudden, I feel like I'm not contributing. I feel like my worth is like,
 I mean, I changed diapers. Like, come on. Like, but pretty much did that with our team too. So
 metaphorically speaking. That's true. Good points. But you know, I struggled with feeling like my,
 I don't know how to say that, but the basically myself worth was kind of just not there. And then
 going through next level of life and seeing, first of all, the importance of being at home with my kids,
 and how I can be, you know, putting all this into their life instead of having them not have that.
 You know, seeing that as a valuable role, that was probably pretty huge. One of the big things for me,
 as far as that's concerned. I think the thing that I love is watching you grow over those years.
 There's not push back on me if this isn't correct. I feel like the struggle of what would have
 been about you just doesn't seem to exist anymore. It's not a, I'm a parent. You know, I'm a person struggling
 as an individual in a situation where I'm parenting. Like what you're talking about with the
 worth issues, I feel like I'm not contributing. Yeah. You know, that's a, that's still about you
 at that moment, right? Yeah. And then I feel like it has become such phenomenal purpose.
 And it's not everything that you still do piano teaching from time to time, which is a passion
 of yours, something you love to do. You still have outlets and things. But it, I never, ever see you
 being my life is not good. It's not good enough. You know, I need, I need to do things for me.
 I need to, it's always just this is what I do. This is my life. This is purpose. This is what I've focused on.
 And it's, I mean, for years, I've said, man, I wish I would love to have you back in the business.
 You know, I would love to have you doing stuff like this. And it's just not your purpose.
 Yeah. No, it's funny because there are days that I'm like, can I come work for you?
 I can't please, please. You told me we tried jobs for a day. Please. But I mean, now I do,
 like I'm able to like put all of that creativity and all of that passion into how can I be a
 better parent for these kids. You know, which instead of just like, I just have to be here and somebody
 asked me like, you know, do the things. But it's, it's become my purpose. Yeah. And you do a fabulous
 job. I love it. Well, thank you for joining me on the show and talking through all of this stuff.
 You know, something that somebody who hadn't been through next level, I probably would not want
 to come on and discuss. But it has so much more meaning and purpose with all the experience behind it.
 And once again, just a, you know, that the, I don't remember how you told me was at the text or was it
 ever a, a crazy, I can't remember how you shared the story. But just such a profound moment of being able to
 look at y'all's parenting and the things that you've been through and the things that you've done and how
 you're shaping, you're not raising kids, you're raising adults. Yeah. You're preparing them to go face
 with now becoming a very ridiculous world and how do they handle themselves in that world? And it's just
 such a phenomenal thing. One last thing for all the parents, whether it's my mom or dad out there,
 what would you tell them? What is that like, what is one thing you want them to know if they're
 struggling in their parenting? Man, I'd say that there is hope when you have the right tools.
 And then just stick to one. But no, but seriously. I've got a list of 20. So,
 well, and the crazy thing is they're like, what's going to work for me and what I struggle with?
 Maybe similar, but maybe different from a lot of people and it's like, man, figuring out why you make
 those choices that you do and why you do, why are you where you're at and how can you move forward?
 I mean, I can't tell any individual that. They've got to go through the process and figure it out.
 Because, man, it is a world of difference between now and then and it's so worth it.
 It's so not uncommon what you experienced. We see it in the next level of life that I'm afraid to have
 a daughter. I'm afraid to have a son that is so not uncommon. We see that in people. Another common thing is
 this child is going to give me all of my worth. I don't feel good enough and I don't feel
 worthy now. But when I have this child, oh my gosh, I'm going to be full of war. This is everything.
 This is going to fulfill everything and then without the right tools, having the child goes,
 yeah, how am I not here, everything. When they start doing things on their own and all that,
 you see this crazy worth drop. It's so powerful. You're right. What you experienced might be a different
 version, but it's so powerful when you have the tools. Thank you for coming on. Hey, thanks for having
 me. I love chatting with you. I'm saying, hey, let's go have lunch. We're going to do lunch.
 Folks, hopefully this has helped you today. Maybe you've heard some of Mary Beth's story and
 you're thinking to yourself, oh my gosh, I've experienced that myself. I know what that's like or a different
 version of that. Here's what I want you to hear. Do not put off getting your butt in next level.
 Do not put off. Mary Beth and Joel are not void of struggle. They're not void of problem.
 You want to lead back yet. Now let me tell you about something. They're not void of issue. What you
 heard today is how to deal with those. The tools, the ways to work through it, the ways to have
 conversations, the way to gain perspective, the way to change things. And Mary Beth's screwing around
 with her water bottle making noise right now. So sorry. Those things are things you can put in your
 life right now. If you do not hold off, don't put it off. The least you need to do is go to Chrissacrote.com/nextlovalife
 and start the journey. Just get the information. Just get the information to find out if this is the
 right thing for you. Just to find out if this is something that's going to help you in your situation.
 And then put all the tools into play with your life and your marriage and that's one thing. We
 need to walk through what it's like just as a husband and wife. Gosh, that's a whole
 other episode. We'll probably have to have you back in. Have me back. That's right. We'll have you back.
 I love having you on the show because you make me scones, which is fantastic. So that's a great thing.
 Folks, get your butt in next level. I've heard least just get the information and start the journey.
 Well, hopefully this has helped you today. We hope that you take this information.
 Change your leadership. Change your business. Change your life. It's your business on the next episode.
 [Music]