 We take a reverse engineering approach to your business growth.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 Leaders in business owners.
 Today we are going to talk about how you are limiting yourself,
 how you are limiting your business growth, how you are limiting your leadership.
 So today's episode we are going to be focusing on how you might be,
 I'll come on this be honest, how you are the lid to the capacity of those you lead.
 Now this is not, this is going to be a beating you over the head of how terrible you are.
 You know that's not what we do, but this is pointing out something that's very important.
 You may be the lid to those that you are leading.
 You may be the lid to their capacity as leaders.
 You may be the lid to the growth of the business.
 So, doesn't matter if you are a leader or a business owner,
 the supplies to you if you have leaders under you.
 This is going to apply to all of you who plan to someday have leaders under you.
 So we are digging into the concept behind the idea of having leadership teams.
 And that's when we are going to talk all the questions behind the questions.
 So to speak.
 Thank you John Miller for keeping you.
 So we are going to be hitting that when we come back right after this.
 Hey leaders, this is Joel Fortner, VP of Leadership Development,
 I am from the Cercordos Company. I have some questions for you.
 Do you as a leader feel like you are caught up in a crazy cycle of stress and tasks that never ends week to week?
 Do you ever have to deal with tough conversations with team members?
 And you said at home the next day the night before worried about how's it going to go?
 What am I going to say? What are they going to say?
 Can I think fast enough on my feet?
 Is it going to be a total failure?
 Are you experiencing culture problems?
 Or that stuff that breaks down trust and unity on your team?
 Well if you can relate to any of this, this is a pretty typical leadership story in situation.
 Here's the thing though.
 It doesn't have to be that way.
 And we can help you solve these things.
 We can help you become the leader that solves these problems and leads their team to greater success.
 I want to introduce you to the key leaders program.
 This is an ongoing leadership development program that gives you the lesson track.
 Coaching and accountability you need to become the leader you can become to actually implement what you're actually learning in this program.
 Things fall apart without great leadership and intentionality.
 If you want to solve the problems that are holding you back from being a great leader, we can help you with this program.
 Get in touch with Joel at Chrislicerdo.com.
 Alright, so to help us get down to the nuts and bolts, I've got one of our team members back on the show with me Brian Alex.
 Welcome to the show.
 What's up brother?
 I am happy to be here.
 How's that burn opening?
 That's the best I'll stick with it.
 So today we're talking about this kind of leadership issue where we're holding back the capacity of our leaders.
 And you got a lot of questions for me.
 This is one of those where, and again, I love the curiosity that you have on the subjects to be able to ask.
 It's just ignorance.
 That's a pure, unadulterated ignorance.
 Which is great.
 The difference is because we all have that right.
 The difference is when we apply it with the curiosity side, we actually seek perspective.
 And that's our goal today is to help you guys get great perspective on how you're holding back your team.
 I don't care if you lead one person or two people, right?
 So you might be a leader under leaders under leaders.
 This applies to you.
 So hit me.
 Yeah, so being back here at the Poimaine group, I took a hiatus for many years, came back around but was delighted that in sticking with your character and where you've been driving for years.
 Your focus is not on growing the bottom line.
 And you say that often in some of our team meetings when we get together, you'll point to look.
 If we had been after just driving profits, we could have made certain decisions along the way to be far beyond where we are today.
 But that is not what we're about.
 That's not our mission.
 And that's not you as a leader.
 And so the focus really has not been driving that bottom line and growing numerically in the business.
 But rather it's been on growing the people that we have here.
 So kind of the the itch that we want to scratch today is okay Chris, but how do I do that?
 If I'm a leader, there are so many things that go through my head that keep me back from really pouring into the leaders around us.
 And we've talked about growing leadership teams.
 We've got an entire series.
 If you want to go back and look at it, it's called an inside look.
 Episode 387 388 and 396 and all we do is talk about growing our leadership team growing the leaders around us.
 But I think what we want to dig past today is let's what's what is underneath that layer.
 Let's go down a level dig a little deeper and hit the motivation for first of all, why does that work?
 How does that approach even justify itself?
 So what we always say here is that profit is not our number one motivator.
 Now profit is definitely so don't hear us incorrectly.
 Profits definitely A is motivator, but it's that best.
 You got to pay your people.
 But there's no way I'm going to.
 Me being one of those people.
 Wait, my paying people.
 Shoot.
 That was just good.
 I got to talk to HR.
 Wait a second, I am HR.
 Wait a second.
 So here's a deal.
 There's no way I'm operating a business that's not going to be profitable.
 That's just a waste of time.
 It's not worth it.
 You know, it's not sustainable.
 It's not sustainable.
 However, I spent a decent amount of my time going after money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So I spent a lot of money.
 So is that even on the radar, though, for most businesses that come through here?
 Are they looking at the bottom line?
 We want to exponentially increase our bottom line.
 But really, Chris, before we get there, help us grow our leaders.
 Is that even an agenda for most business owners and leaders?
 Yes, that's a great question.
 For the bulk of them, they've been listening, following,
 have been clients for a long enough time.
 That they have wrecked, they've come to next level of leadership live event.
 They're in next level of mass.
 They've done something with us enough to go, oh my gosh,
 this dude's approach is so different than everybody else is out there.
 They're all trying to sell the magic pill.
 He's actually going out to the thing that's keeping us from having the money.
 Right? That's keeping us from keeping the money.
 And so that becomes an important thing to them,
 or they're like, I don't know the answers,
 but I want to come find out the answers.
 They still want a great bottom line.
 Every now and then we'll get somebody who will come through
 who's really focused on the money.
 But the great thing is by the time they're frustrated
 being focused on the money, I go back and point out,
 see this thing here, what if we fix that?
 Oh, yeah, that's a lot of money.
 How about these things over here? Oh, that's a lot of money.
 I mean, it happens probably one out of every ten
 strap plans, I'll experience that, where somebody's like,
 but what about the money?
 And then I just show them the different pieces,
 like, you're good, keep going.
 I mean, it's just, you know, but for the most part,
 we have a lot of folks that come through that are like,
 I know that there's problems with communication.
 I just don't know what.
 I don't know what to do with it.
 So let's get after it.
 It seems like some of that could be similar to the home.
 I would assume incorrect me or adjust this,
 but the majority of business owners out there
 are probably male.
 Well, I don't actually know that answer.
 I know of our clients, the majority are male.
 Okay, so let's say at least half probably more than half
 just to be very modest.
 Here's where I'm going with that.
 I know for myself and I can't speak as a female.
 And I'm not a business owner, but I know in the home,
 it's easy for us guys and talking away from business
 to have this mindset of, well, I'm out there working hard.
 And I'm out there, bringing home the money.
 And I'm out there, you know, is the number one bread winner,
 whatever.
 And that's my role and that's how I serve the family.
 That's how I minister to the family.
 And I wonder if some of that's true,
 just trying to get at this mindset for the business owner and leader
 if they're thinking, well, I got to grow the business.
 I got to increase the numbers.
 I got to get more profitable because that's how I serve my employees.
 And there's kind of this justification that goes on,
 but unwittingly a lot of times us guys,
 we shoot ourselves in the foot because we ruin the relationships
 in our home because we've been out there,
 busted it.
 And we think we're going to come home and be appreciated.
 And we find out that our relationships are rex
 because we haven't spent time investing in the people around us.
 And so does that same phenomenon happen then in the business side
 of that equation, especially where us guys are concerned?
 Yeah, so I see where you're going with that.
 So for the guys, so women still struggle with this same concept,
 just not as much.
 Their struggle is in a different area.
 For men, there is a huge struggle with our identity of being a leader
 or being a business owner.
 And by that, what I'm saying is, and especially the older generations,
 we're not seeing it as much with the younger generations,
 but especially the older generations,
 where they've been trained your worth to your family is put in foot on the table.
 Your worth to your family is building,
 making sure they have a big house, making sure they've got whatever.
 So when you look at that, I see where you're going with that.
 Yeah, we see that identity being a struggle.
 I never saw, I didn't see that modeled in my own home.
 So that was difficult as a paradigm to emulate in my family's home.
 If you're struggling for that model, then it's difficult to understand your role.
 And your identity is shifting a lot of times within that.
 But I'm just kind of teasing out this idea.
 And maybe it happens in the home as well as the business is the point that we can be so focused on the function that we have of what our worth is to the family that we don't spend a lot of time pouring into the family.
 But I, and just again, watching you here and not to blow smoke up your skirt because you're wearing pants today.
 To say that again here, you constantly come away from the idea of, you know, we're driving profits and profitability for the company.
 You're driving people. You're growing people. You want to see their capacity increase because only in their increase in capacity does your capacity increase as a leader.
 So, okay, so lots to hit there. One of the tough things and one of the messages we want to share with leaders and business owners is how,
 because they're stuck with their identity being in the role that they're in.
 Guys, guys, doesn't matter who they are, right?
 But if your identity is in being a leader, if your identity is in being a business owner,
 whichever it is, then what happens is that you get stuck in being emotionally handcuffed to that being your identity.
 I am a business owner of four businesses. That's not my identity.
 I am a child of God. I am a citizen of heaven. I am a husband. I am a dad. I am a friend. I am a business owner.
 You know, business owner, it's one of the pieces, but my identity always. First is that God is my father. I am his son.
 And it sounds like you're emphasizing relationships over the role.
 You mentioned your son. You're also a husband and you have friends.
 You know, where you are, where you are, relationally, helps to locate you. And that should also immediately help us to go to,
 then that should be my investment also.
 You will, yes. So technically, yes, right? Because what I believe is,
 God needs to be the most important thing in your life period.
 So you need to be investing in that relationship above all others.
 And then based on that priority hierarchy, you come down and notch and there's beautiful Heather.
 And she becomes that second most invested piece that you have.
 And flowing from that, we begin to see order come out of this.
 And the identity is rightly placed and not squandered on things that we think are going to be serving those other pieces.
 But in reality, you know, I'm spending my energies at work.
 I'm spending my energies in my roles and everything like that.
 Wow, the relationship suffers. I guess that's the piece I want to hit right here is that has to be an order first for everything else to function.
 It's so difficult because if you don't spend a lot of time focused on God, it is incredibly difficult to make him the most important thing in your life.
 So many people who claim to be Christian believe they have a great relationship with God.
 And when you look at it, it's minimal and best.
 But they say that their Christians and they go to a service once a week and they read a three-minute devotional in the morning.
 They pray over their food. They might say, "Couple extra prayers. I have a great relationship."
 Not really, right?
 When he becomes more important than anything else. When he becomes first before everything else.
 Everybody who's close to me, you've known me for many, many, many years.
 16, 17 years, something like that. It's been a long time.
 19.
 19. Good.
 Wow. Everybody who's close to me knows God's more important than anything.
 And then after that is my wife. Why is it that order?
 Because my wife can't keep me to heaven.
 My business can't keep me to heaven. I'm never going to go to heaven and God's going to go.
 I'm really impressed with the bottom line you had.
 Yeah.
 This never going to be the thing, right?
 So priority to me is incredibly important.
 So, and we're going to hit this. I want to hit the strategic side that every leader and every business on our needs to focus on here in just a minute.
 But priority is incredibly important. If I will put God first, then my heart towards man will be different.
 If I will focus on loving God well and more importantly, how he loves me really well, then my heart will be different.
 My priorities will be different. You know, like I say, we run a profitable business.
 That's not an issue.
 It's just not the thing we're going after more than anything else.
 At the same time, me being a leader is not my identity.
 It is not I'm constantly growing my leaders to become stronger and become better.
 Why?
 Because my identity isn't being the leader.
 My identity to this business is helping people internally, externally changing lives.
 That's my job. That's my worth to the business.
 Not to the people, but to the company itself.
 That's my job, right?
 So what happens is that we get stuck in this place of wrong identity, wrong worth.
 And we hold onto it because we are getting so much worth from the identity that we can hold onto that same position for year after year after year after year after year after year.
 And not recognize that nothing is growing.
 Our people aren't growing.
 You know, we may be putting money to the bottom line.
 The business may be growing, but it could be growing exponentially if we would make a couple of shifts.
 And that's the thing that I look forward to explaining when we come back right after this.
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here.
 I'm the Vice President of Leadership Development on Chris's team.
 And I'll oversee our next level of Mastermind Business Coaching Program.
 Most business owners and leaders like a clear path to succeed in business.
 The question whether they're making the right decisions, if they're focusing on the right things to really grow their business.
 If this is you, you need to coach in your life.
 Coaches help you make better decisions, navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively, and grow your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue and an average of 138% increase in net profit and regain hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3.5 years simply because of the results they get.
 So if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting, then visit Chriscardo.com/mastermind.
 Again, Chriscardo.com/mastermind today.
 We're back and we're talking about reverse engineering your business growth.
 And so much of that, the struggles, it's not the thing that people think it is.
 It's not the I'm missing the magic bill. It's not the I don't have enough money.
 Instead, when it comes down to the leadership side leaders and business owners, what we can find in many, many businesses is the identity of the leader.
 Yeah, I think what we're hitting on and what you've already teased out is the thing, the obstacle that's in the path here, the obstacle that keeps us back from investing in the people around us because our goal has to be reoriented and like you're saying until that identity is reoriented.
 Until we understand and I love to tell you phrase this, we understand what our value or our worth is to the business is different than my identity and my value and worth as a person.
 Right.
 And I think when we come back to that and it re-orients and we have these new priorities, it frees us to where I don't have to be a slave to the profit and the bottom line.
 Although that keeps us sustainable, that keeps us growing, but my focus can then be, I want to pour into other people.
 And so let's get into that side of it here.
 Let's assume that most of the listeners have already made that shift.
 They've re-oriented like a lot of our clients already have that mindset because they've been listening and following.
 And it's just not something that is taught in business school. I mean, this kind of a concept of pouring into other people.
 And that being really how the business grows, that being the real profitability of the business.
 That's not textbook.
 Yeah.
 That's something in real life that you have to discover.
 So I love using an example.
 When I was a kid, there was a couple of famous business owners that I wanted to be.
 And when I say, "Yeah, I'm saying like eight years old, I wanted to be a couple of different business owners that were really popular.
 One of those was Leia I Koka."
 And the reason why was because I saw his success or at least what I interpreted and just like the rest of the world,
 I saw this incredibly successful guy leading this really big business, right?
 It wasn't until later on in life that Jim Collins did a phenomenal job and good to great research and the daylights out of these companies to find out what made them go from good to great.
 If you've never read the book, go read it seven times over. It's fantastic.
 But here's one of the things that shocked me when he got to Leia Koka and he got to cry, sir,
 one of the things he pointed out was, "I Koka was the reason for their success."
 Now, how was that possible? There's thousands of team members in this.
 When he left the business, the business tanked.
 So what did they do? They went out and convinced him to come back and add his own fanfare.
 Taking a look at me, I'm coming back to say you've Chrysler.
 He comes back in, saves Chrysler, and then it takes again, right?
 So what do we discover in this process that the company could not run without him?
 What does that say? What does that speak to?
 That he's the one making everything happen, which means that anybody under him is not.
 Think about that for a second.
 So it's not built to last.
 It's not built to last.
 Well, sir, well, that is how the mighty fall. Let me tell you that.
 Oh, all these Jim Ball and Siddles. They're good. Right.
 So what you have to understand is that I, O'Koka, had a great business mind.
 He didn't have a great leadership mind.
 Because what he should have been focusing on is making people great.
 The people would continue to make the business great even if he stopped out.
 What do we say around here? What's that phrase? What's that saying?
 What's that saying?
 If we make our leaders, no, no, the job of the leader, I'm going to get it right here in a second.
 The job of the leader is to make his team successful, not the other way around.
 That's exactly it.
 So when I started that each, right, at 21, I think it was, I started leading people like I thought,
 and I, O'Koka, would lead people, right?
 You know, all these other famous leaders back in those days.
 And I found out within a couple of months. Now, keep in mind, I was the assistant customer service supervisor.
 So, wow, huge authority there.
 But what happened is, as I started telling people what to do, and I realized very quickly,
 I lost their belief in me.
 Like the people who liked me, no longer, they wouldn't come around me.
 They wouldn't want to follow.
 I didn't want to follow.
 And I realized, well, some is wrong here.
 So let's shift and work a different direction.
 And within a few months, I started changing and doing what I call now, taxing the collective intelligence.
 And I would bring them in board and include them all this stuff, and immediately change happened.
 And so that started that process in my mind of going way to second.
 It's not about me as the leader.
 It's not about a title, which a man was teeny tiny.
 It's not about that identity in that role.
 What I learned super fast is if I can make people apart the process, tax the collective intelligence,
 grow from their wisdom and knowledge, and help them to become great,
 then I buy default, become great.
 Thus, it your job is later, make your team successful, not the other way around.
 If you make them successful, buy default, you become successful, right?
 So, what does that lead us?
 Yes. And why is the issue? Why is I a coca's identity in him being the great savior of Chrysler?
 Why is there something wrong with that?
 Well, I imagine he was the only one that had the answers to the problems that Chrysler was running into.
 That's exactly.
 So, I don't know if you have all the answers, but here's what I do know.
 Here's what I can surmise from what was happening.
 He was the one that people had to go to for the answers.
 He was the one that had to go to for the direction, for clearance, for everything that it took to run the business.
 Why is that a problem?
 Because there's no duplicating yourself in that process.
 What does that mean to all the leaders and business owners that are listening to the show?
 If your identity is in the title of being a leader or being a business owner,
 then what are you going to do with your leaders?
 You're going to do the same thing that they are doing as leaders,
 and that is solving everybody's problems underneath you.
 Solving, every time somebody comes to you with an issue, you solve it.
 Every time somebody comes to you with a question you answer it.
 And what happens is it becomes so much of your worth.
 Yeah, but I've got the best answer. I can fix the thing.
 I can do it. I can solve it right now.
 And your worth becomes answering questions.
 I think that's a great flag.
 In a different episode we're talking about some of the internal monitoring that we do as a flag to understand what's happening.
 And this is a great flag for leaders out there. It makes me go right to the series.
 And I just call it the series now.
 Joel has his series and it's West Wing.
 And he doesn't even have to say West Wing and he just talks to the series.
 Well, for me it's the office.
 And so you say you were the assistant, you know, customer sir.
 I immediately have Dwight's voice in my head.
 The assistant to, you know, the regional manager.
 But in that series, which is really iconic and it really plays off of so much real life drama in offices across America,
 which is why it's so wildly successful even today.
 That's my plug.
 I don't know if I get any kickback of the hat or not. I don't know.
 But it's amazing to see how much there is joceling for position and title and rank.
 Because identity is associated with that position.
 But it also is and it shows this other side of it here that the only person who could answer any questions was Michael as the regional manager.
 And even most of the time it was the wrong answer.
 And that's what we love him for.
 But I mean, all of that to say, you know, that's a caricature of what is really happening in most businesses where people are
 defined by their title.
 They take that role and they make it their identity.
 But they don't train others how they they may delegate.
 But that's not really what we're talking about today.
 We're talking about duplication.
 Like what you said. And so that duplication necessarily means we have to pour into others and bring them up to our.
 And so we're not our level of thinking, but our ability and the capacity to think for ourselves and to figure things out and you know in the 19 years that I've known you.
 One of the most frustrating things about you Chris that I have to say is that you constantly make me think.
 And I'm like, I'm not here to think.
 I'm just here to do my task, you know, but but no taskless aren't enough.
 And asana is not enough. We have to have KRAs.
 And the KRA helps me think about my, you know, my global contribution to the overall mission of the company and things like this.
 And it's very frustrating.
 And so all of that to say, I've been pressed to grow as a person as a team member as a leader in the company.
 Because you're not satisfied with your capacity as a leader.
 You're growing my capacity and and therefore you've grown is the, you know, kind of the the fruit of all of that labor and that process.
 So what I just want to tease that out again, we're not talking about how to delegate better to get things off of your plate as a leader.
 You're talking about duplicating yourself in other people so that they rise up and they grow in their capacity.
 It's not so they can climb a corporate ladder and get to that next position. They're growing into that.
 Right.
 Yeah. So this is going to take me a little bit to unpack.
 Here's for every leader out there who has leaders under them, okay?
 Or plans on having leaders under them at any point. So you could be the business owner. You could be three rungs down. It doesn't matter.
 The concept is this.
 You can never grow your team unless you step out of the way and out of being the one who solves the problems.
 Being the one who has all the answers and cause them to answer it.
 So here's the role that I want you to consider taking on the strategic development of people.
 So in other words, for me as a leader, yes, I definitely am over the strategy of the business.
 It's my job. It's not my job to do to pull off the strategy itself.
 We have a whole team of people that execute strategically on the things that we need to do to get to the destination.
 The next destination that we're heading to. If I have to do it all once again, I'm stuck in the same stupid leadership crazy sign.
 And you're the only one thinking.
 No, yeah, I'm the only one doing right.
 When it comes to leaving, when my identity is stuck to being a leader, being the one who has the answers,
 being the one who answers all the questions when my worth is coming from that, then what happens is I'm all I'm never going to let you think.
 I'm going to let you come to me and ask me how to solve the thing.
 And if that's what my worth is, I don't want to let go of it. Why? Because I don't want to give up the thing that's feeding my worth.
 It feels good.
 It feels really good. So let me give you an example that I use.
 I've used it a few of our next level leadership live events. Aaron West, who is one of our leadership coaches here, has been with me for,
 I'm probably going to screw this up to 13 years. I think, you know, on and off.
 He worked for me for many years.
 He became an entrepreneur himself. He's been working with us for a long time here to the point.
 So he's gone from being a team member to being a leadership coach and doing a phenomenal job of leading people.
 Being an entrepreneur, teaching people how to be entrepreneurs, all this kind of fun stuff. He's amazed balls, right?
 But in the early days, I'll never forget to share this story about how I think I was running around town or something.
 I think I was out either at an interview lunch or something like that.
 I remember what it was. And I get this email from Aaron and he says, "Hey, here's the situation what do you want to do?"
 Well, he had been working for me long enough that I said back to him, Aaron, what do you want to do?
 Now, most leaders would have just answered the question. They would have solved the problem.
 They would have given their inputs because they are getting their worth from answering the question.
 And that's what most team members want you to do, Chris.
 Exactly. The moment though, why? Because it's easy.
 Because it solves the problem. They don't have to use their brain power. They can continue checking off tasks, right?
 For me, I don't focus that way. First 90 days I'll answer any question you've got, but the moment I see that you're actually thinking for yourself,
 I'm going to start pushing you to think for yourself. I'm going to push you to come up with the information.
 Come up with the answers on that. So I respond back, what do you want to do?
 And so then he said to be this long. I mean, it is like three paragraphs long of all the options and things that we could do and all this stuff and at the bottom says, what do you want to do?
 And I respond back, Aaron, what do you want to do? Question mark, exclamation point.
 Then he sends me back an answer.
 He's just enjoying this conversation and just not frustrated at all.
 He's actually not, but the co-workers around him are dying alive because the team that he's on at the time, he's sharing it with them.
 I'm getting texts. This is hilarious. Keep doing it. I'm like texting back. Get back to work.
 So he sends me another email that's a couple paragraphs long and at the bottom he says, what do you want to do?
 And I sent back all caps. Aaron, what do you want to do?
 And then the next email I get to short paragraphs A and B. And he says, I think that we should do A.
 But what's your thoughts?
 A is the correct answer, man. Great job. Next time come back with the answer. Tell me what you think we should do instead of just asking me what do I want to do.
 That changed. So funny. I think I came in the office probably like a half hour later. Something like that.
 And we were just dying laughing at that process.
 And I'm like, brother, this is what I want for you. You're smart. I didn't hire you because I wanted to be the person who answered all your questions.
 You're an incredibly smart guy. Bring that to the table. Well, Crad.
 From there, he has gone on to be an entrepreneur. Like I say, he's somebody who leads entrepreneurs and leaders in our programs here. He heads up our KLP or key leader program here.
 He is grown immensely. Now, if I got my worth from being the leader, Aaron wouldn't be where he is sitting right now.
 Why? Because I would have continued to answer the question for him.
 What answer the question? What answer the question? What answer the question? But instead, I push him to become an extrateagically plan on growing him.
 So when I see the opportunities and it's not 100% of the time, one percent of the time, it's just like, I don't have time for this. Here's the answer.
 That's right. That's a couple times a year, right?
 But instead, I strategically grow Aaron to become a better version of himself, to think for himself, to come up with better answers.
 And then the guy just explodes. Once you give him the opportunity, he's like, oh, I actually have the freedom to think for myself.
 Well, and I just got to interject here. There's there are plenty of monkeys out there that push a button that costs a lot less than a team member like this.
 But the onus of responsibility here is on the leader to think strategically about their teams.
 And about their teams ability and capacity. And you teasing out that leadership capacity from him and from the whole team from myself included is part of what you bring to table as the leader.
 But it also, and I'll plug the KRA here, that's where KRAs come in and are so helpful because they make us think globally about our contribution to the overall mission.
 And that's something that there's room to grow into. If all you have is a job description, then you're limiting that person's role and their value to the company on achieving little check marks in each of those boxes.
 And so that's so critical to you know, and to what we do here and how you lead.
 Yeah, I think the key is is that the moment I stop gaining my worth from helping. I can't help. I'm going to have to share story about you.
 I'll close my ears. So months ago there was a event thing that you had set up and it was, and it's kind of working. It's not working whatever, but you came to me and say,
 I want to know what you want this thing to look like. And so what do you want to look like? You like, I don't know what I wanted it. I don't want what I wanted it to look like.
 I want to know what you want to look like. And I want, well, what was wrong with what you, how you had it like.
 And it was fantastic because the whole time it was fantastic for who it was not fantastic for you in the moment. But I just kept asking questions guiding you to pull out the information of what this thing could look like and how it can be great.
 And then when we got to the very end, I said, so what do you think? And you said, well, I mean, we've got the answer, but I still don't have your answer. And I said, yes, you do.
 And you know, how do I have your answer? I said, because if there was anything that you pulled, you know, I guided you by asking you these questions.
 If you said anything, it was only like twice. I made it slide adjustment in leading you in that process. Everything that you've got down is how I want that thing to look.
 And that's a huge piece because my realization months later after rehearsing that in my head 50 million times was coming to the part.
 Coming to a place of going, okay, it's more important to Chris that his team thinks and grows and takes ownership of the responsibilities that they've been given.
 And then it is to have a certain outcome of a certain scenario or circumstance. And I think that's huge for leaders to get their heads around is that the people are your most valuable asset to your company, not the other way around.
 And so we invest in them, we grow them, we lead them and therefore of necessity and is just a default, the company grows and becomes more profitable.
 We could have solved the whole discussion in less than half a time.
 Oh, you could have given me a one line.
 If you just do this to this, and yet there's no growth.
 But then I wouldn't have gotten any further along.
 Yeah, exactly.
 The paper part was the part when you said, but I still don't know what you want. And I said, yes, you do here's how. And you just sat there, you looked up to this guy and you can see that process of like, oh crap, that did just happen.
 And that was so painful.
 Yes, it was painful for you with the process. But look at where you are now growth is painful, right?
 Absolutely. I mean, that impact your process where you start going.
 Okay, think through this first.
 Instead of just looking for an answer or what I think is the right answer, do I have the right answer?
 And give the best you possibly can because the more you grow in that the more it becomes force a habit to think solution.
 How do I do this? What do I do?
 And then your value to the business becomes greater, right?
 So let's wrap it up with this.
 Yeah.
 Leaders, here's what I want you to look at. And here's how I want you to think of yourself, a strategic developer of people.
 I want you to look especially at your leaders before anything else.
 And ask yourself the question, am I solving all of their problems? Am I answering all of their questions?
 Or am I doing everything I can to get them to think for themselves?
 I'm doing everything I can to get them to come up with the solutions to solve the problems, to fix things.
 If you are not doing that, then I want you to ask yourself the question, why not?
 And I think what you're going to discover is you have an incredible amount of worth attached to you being the one who answers all the questions and solves all the problems.
 Guys, you are never going to duplicate you in this process.
 Because you are now the lid because you're not helping your team members grow. Once again,
 Aaron West came in as a team member became an entrepreneur and is now a leader of leaders.
 A coach of leaders. Why? Because I didn't, am I taking all the credit for that? No, I'm not taking all the credit for that.
 What I'm saying is, is giving him the opportunity to grow,
 cause him to explode. He's the one who had the capacity. He's the one who had the intelligence.
 I didn't feed his brain full of intelligence. He came and didn't know anything and now he's super smart.
 Nope. Did he learn from me? Absolutely.
 He needed a leader that would allow that kind of growth though.
 That's exactly it. It's taking a look at the capacity. I know I look at you and I know the capacity that you have.
 I know the stuff that you can do. Do I know that it's frustrating? Absolutely.
 Do I know that moment was frustrating for Aaron? I know that it was frustrating.
 It had to have been frustrating to work.
 The rest of the team was dying last year.
 Everybody saw a laugh at his point.
 He's written like at this point.
 He's never a paragraph worth of information.
 Aaron, who's editing, I'm right there with the brother.
 So, you know, the key is this.
 If I put my worth in that role that I don't make better versions of the people that I'm paying.
 What a colossal waste of time and money.
 If I make them great, guess what?
 They make other people great by default. I become great.
 So, I want you guys to think about this.
 How are you going to shift?
 At least a percentage of your role where you become the strategic developer of people.
 If you will do that, then it will change the growth of your business.
 So, what are we doing?
 We're reverse engineering.
 How so?
 If we stop focusing on the bottom line, if we stop focusing on the numbers,
 if we stop focusing on all the great ideas,
 and we actually make people great.
 We go back to the most important element.
 You're not going to grow it without your people.
 If you make people great by spending time on them,
 then believe it or not, they will execute the data that I've got of all the great ideas.
 They will execute the data that I've got of the strategy of the business.
 People always ask, "How much are you going to do with the people that are here?
 Because we're focusing on people being successful."
 So, there you have it, folks.
 That's where I want you to focus.
 Yeah, so just to sum up, you said earlier that you are the lid on the capacity of those you lead.
 Maybe we could also say that you're the lever that allows them to grow and develop their capacity beyond where it currently is.
 So, I think that's a great and freeing and really empowering thought for leaders out there that you're not just the keeping that capacity down.
 You're also the one that opens it up and allows it to expand beyond where it is now.
 That'll be John Maxwell's newest book, The lid or The lever.
 So, if you have not read the 21 irrefutable laws of leadership, you need to go read that too.
 All right, well, Brian, thanks again for joining me.
 My pleasure.
 So, glad having you in here with such great questions, folks.
 As always, you know what our goal is.
 Our goal is to help you.
 Our goal is to get you information that causes you to change the way you lead people.
 You take care of people. You grow your leadership and grow your business.
 So, as always, here's what we want you to do.
 Take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next episode.
 Thank you.
 (upbeat music)
 [BLANK_AUDIO]