 Today's episode is one of the question and answer sessions from the next level of
 the ship live events where we take real questions from real leaders just like you.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCredo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover
 that businesses what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 Hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today we have a great episode where we do our next-level leadership live event once a year.
 So we have four events that we do every year.
 Three of those are for the next-level mastermind group.
 They come to our offices, our event space, events here, teaching, trainings, all that kind of
 fun stuff, great social time, all that.
 And then once a year we open up one of their events so they have four total events.
 One of those we open up to the public.
 That is what we call the next-level leadership live event.
 And we have done that for the last six years and it has been just fabulous every single time.
 Last year obviously was not in person.
 We had to do that online.
 And I can tell you people were very excited to get back here in person and spend time together.
 So that was fabulous.
 So part of that process is two and a half days worth of fabulous teaching.
 We really did a heavy duty workshop in here as well where you notice like being a business leader or business owner.
 When you go away to something amazing and you come back with a ton of information, but you don't actually have time to work on it.
 So we did a great few workshops where we got the spend time actually putting in place the things that we were teaching.
 Crazy powerful.
 We absolutely loved it.
 In between those times we do some question and answer.
 Today we have one of our question and answer sessions that we are going to be playing some of the questions for you guys.
 So you can see and hear what people are asking but also apply this to where you are today.
 So that is coming up right after this.
 Hey it's Joel Fortner here.
 I'm the Vice President of Leadership Development on Chris's team and I will see our next level mastermind business coaching program.
 Most business owners and leaders like a clear path to succeed in business.
 The question whether they're making the right decisions if they're focusing on the right things to really grow their business.
 If this is you, you need a coach in your life.
 Coach is helping you make better decisions, navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively and grow your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in growth revenue and an average of 138% increase in net profit and regained hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3.5 years simply because of the results they get.
 So if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting, then visit Chrisacordo.com/mastermind.
 Again, Chrisacordo.com/mastermind today.
 Alright folks here is the Q&A session from the next level of leadership live event.
 My question is we've got a leadership team of four people and I don't feel like anybody on my leadership team is really super excited about like,
 like, tracking KPIs, KRAs, me as the owner, I'm not super excited.
 Do I need to bring somebody into the leadership team that's really fired up about it or do I need to take ownership of that and make it my thing?
 So first question I would ask, first two questions I would ask is have you explained how important it is and how beneficial it is?
 And then do you know why they're not excited?
 So what do you think on those two questions?
 I would say I probably haven't had the message clear enough.
 Yeah, I'd say that's probably the number one reason. But secondly I don't know if I have personalities that are really analytical in that way.
 I think maybe that would be another thing.
 Do you know what personalities they are?
 They're more not really taking my personality test on it, I know.
 So I think that would be great as well.
 Values would be great as well.
 But the big keys are, once it's like we've talked about earlier in the earlier session, when you help them to see so.
 You're always going to get pushback from anybody who thinks that the thing that the tool that you're putting in place is going to be like big brother.
 It's going to be something that holds them accountable in a way that they're worried about or it's going to show that they suck and then you're going to want to fire them.
 However, whenever you put a tool in place that they don't completely understand, there's a high probability of getting pushback.
 So the big key is to make sure that you explain how beneficial and like I say, take the responsibility.
 Hey guys, I'm just learning about this.
 You know, I'm learning that this is a smart thing to do and I've done a bad job putting things in place to help you be successful.
 And to make sure that you know what success looks like, which means that I've probably done a bad job communicating to you how you can be the most successful you can in your role.
 So great thing is, as I've learned this process and we're going to put this in place and the goal is to help us all become really home to in on what makes us successful in our individual roles.
 Right? So that's what we're doing with this. Now I want to know any questions you guys have asked anything and just go through that whole process.
 If you help them to see it's to benefit them, then you'll probably get a decently different response if they're just adamantly against it.
 Then I think there's a much bigger cultural issue, which is that we've fostered the ability of people not to allow change, which is going to jump to a completely different focus.
 Right? Do you feel like that that's a struggle?
 I think everybody would like it, but nobody wants to take do the work up. Like, I don't feel like I have, and there's nobody on my team that's like, oh man, let's do this.
 Let's like, they wake up in the morning, they want to go right up, okay?
 Guys.
 And so my question is, do I need to bring somebody that into the leadership team that would be excited about that or do I need to just develop that within the leadership team?
 What do you all think?
 I would first of, look at, let's only back up a little bit, as all adds also what Chris is saying on the first question.
 When you look to across the team, what are the problems that we have on the team?
 Where are there are problems that link back to poor expectations, lacks of quality communication, lacks of healthy accountability?
 Look for those things because often that's going to point to, oftentimes lack of a KRA or lack of great communication between leader and team member.
 And that also gives you some more information to help team members see the importance of it because it's the real life stuff that we're dealing with.
 That made matter to them, it made frustrate them, it made frustrate you, it made hold them back in certain ways.
 So sometimes aocratic style of discussion or a question is very helpful for people to see like, do you see like these issues and problems?
 What if we could solve those?
 What would your day-to-day life be like?
 And you take that kind of a process to get people to see, oh, now I see the importance.
 And I'm trying to get people to see what's going on.
 And I'm trying to get people to see what's going on.
 And I'm trying to get people to see what's going on.
 And I'm trying to get people to see what's going on.
 And I'm trying to get people to see what's going on.
 And I'm trying to get people to see what's going on.
 And I'm trying to get people to see what's going on.
 And I'm trying to get people to see what's going on.
 And I'm trying to get people to see what's going on.
 And I'm trying to get people to see what's going on.
 And I'm trying to get people to see what's going on.
 And I'm trying to get people to see what's going on.
 And I'm trying to get people to see what's going on.
 And I'm trying to get people to see what's going on.
 And I'm trying to get people to see what's going on.
 Is anyone had to just grin and bear it in terms of getting KRAs and Kv.
 The person that I de-personality is like, yeah, because we don't want to put the pin the paper.
 And so it's ever.
 Especially high eyes.
 I've got it.
 I don't need to write it down.
 I'm good.
 I'm in take notes.
 I'm going to say, well, okay.
 Grow up, Joel.
 But do you have to do all the administrative pin the paper?
 Not always.
 Sometimes using technology and using administrative person is very helpful.
 So sometimes it's, okay, what am I trying to get to in this role?
 I'm going to talk it out into a voicememmo.
 I'm going to record it.
 These are the results I'm after.
 These are KPIs that I'm seeing already.
 This is the stuff that I'm seeing.
 Get it down and documented.
 And you may have someone who helps you actually type it down.
 Because that's the hard part for you.
 You can just sit down in front of a computer and a blank screen.
 Anybody, a blank screen staring back at you and you're like, what am I even doing?
 That you can get it out of your head.
 Leverage technology.
 Speak it out.
 Record it.
 You can also upload stuff like that to a transcription service.
 That 20 seconds you've got every word you just said.
 Now you've got somewhat of a document that you can give somebody and say, hey, can you take this format
 and set them up for success?
 Take this information and I needed in this kind of format.
 Even if it gets you 30, 40, 50% of the way down the road to getting the administrative task done,
 would it be worth it?
 And then from there it's like, okay, I can polish it up and work it from here.
 But now you've got some momentum going toward getting what can feel like a pretty daunting task
 is getting KRA's done.
 So on top of that, like Joel was saying, keep in mind, it doesn't have to be the person who does it,
 but they better have a whole lot of input.
 The other piece to make sure that the leader understands is how valuable this will be in holding team members accountable.
 Anybody ever have any problems with team members?
 Seriously, that's why you're here.
 Right? So when the leaders are pushing back on something, it's because once again, they don't see the benefit,
 so like Joel saying, go ahead and have somebody else do the filling in.
 They need to put the input, do the voice recording, it's fantastic.
 These are the things I'm looking for, but also make sure that they understand, hey guys,
 this is how you're going to sit down with Frank over here who's been sucking my crazy lately,
 and you keep complaining about how Frank isn't doing a great job,
 but you have no way to hold him accountable.
 This is going to be able to sit down and go, hey Frank, this isn't getting done, help me understand why.
 And now this is a tool that will actually relieve pressure as a leader to actually make their leading easier and better.
 So the crazy side of this is we look at the sitting down and spending the hour to put together,
 and it's some may take longer, but I mean, plan on being an hour to put the care eight together.
 We look at that time as they, oh gosh, I don't want to do that.
 Okay, well the 47 hours you spent, you know, in the last couple of weeks,
 trying to get the person to do the job right, that's much better than the one hour sitting down and having a tool.
 Zollum makes sense.
 So they can see that and then it doesn't make them want to do the pen to paper,
 but at least gives them a really good reason to want to.
 So make sense?
 And I'll just add really quick, a big piece of that if the motivation behind it.
 Someone says, yeah, I'm not really excited about doing care.
 I'll just be real with you.
 But if I see the result that comes out of executing with the carry, like what Chris and Jol is talked about,
 that's what drives me then to go, okay, now I know I need to do the carry.
 It may not be that I enjoy the process of the carry, but I enjoy the outcome I get with what I'm able to do with the carry.
 When I'm able to lead my team and be able to use that and they be able to use that themselves as team members,
 and it sets me and sets them up for success.
 That's what I'm looking for.
 It creates that communication that we need to have.
 It sets up expectations.
 Now I've got that in place that I didn't have before.
 Like Chris was saying, I spent 47 hours trying to deal with all that.
 Instead of the one hour of putting it together and going, gosh,
 if I just done that one hour before, I would say myself all of this headache on the backside.
 So make sense?
 Yeah.
 And a little bit still, um, so we're a young growing company, fast, pretty fast growing.
 You know, people with job descriptions are changing constantly so their carry would be like,
 is it a culture of like, everybody's having to create carries or should it, like, one person to be, hey,
 you make sure if a job job description changes, there's a carry or a KPI or whatever to follow that.
 It needs to be the person with the greatest knowledge of this role,
 and the results in success.
 This is not one of those things.
 Can be very difficult to give it to a person who can just own that and bust it out.
 They simply don't have the knowledge and information on the role.
 So this becomes part of your leadership culture,
 but really your team culture at large is to train what you're learning here,
 and to the mindset of the leaders because we are focusing on why are we doing this.
 What's most important?
 I hate to task a bit as much as anybody else,
 but you know what I love, and I see, yeah, exactly.
 I literally coach people on it weekly.
 I don't enjoy the task of it, but I love the aspects of it from a leader.
 But I've had to learn to get here to say, do you see what you're doing?
 This is about setting up your team member for success.
 Joel, push your mind to get to the information that your team member needs to be successful.
 Then we get it documented and it's done.
 Now I can just lead.
 Now we can just meet.
 Now we can discuss and then you talk about having done.
 Can't imagine ever going back.
 No, you don't want to because you see this success and the results of my team member literally wouldn't be happening.
 If I wasn't without this clarity of communication,
 and then the clarity of Chris is going to get to this afternoon on how do we lead KRAs.
 But that's the fun part.
 We get through the admin side and get it done.
 But then once you've got it done, now you're going to meet your going to update stuff.
 But I think you're probably going to experience the results at your team that will possibly eventually bring you around to being like, okay,
 this is really valuable tool.
 Yeah, last piece on that is you were so glad that you're here.
 And this when I like I've opened the event up with this is tough for stuff.
 Then you're going to get from most people teaching the stuff because the stuff that's the 30,000 foot view doesn't actually technically work, right?
 It's just a really great idea unless you do something with it.
 You're just like way high in the sky.
 You're just way out there.
 So do the hard work.
 Get it done.
 Get the leaders there.
 Get it.
 It's going to take you guys sometime once you get on the other side.
 They won't ever want to go back to the other direction.
 Again, like Joseph, they won't love the admin side, but they won't want to go back to the direction.
 Does that make sense?
 Yes.
 Thank you.
 Appreciate it.
 Thank you.
 Looking to get some coaching on how we can better train up our 13 year old daughter.
 There was everything we tried.
 The results seem to not get better.
 And joy is in consequences.
 It's a struggle with that consequences.
 And I want to change it up.
 Doesn't seem to have an effect.
 She's very creative and artistic.
 We recognize that.
 So I also don't want to crush that as a part of this process.
 I want to really encourage that and embrace that part of her.
 But also work towards her being a successful adult as she continues to get older.
 So yeah, joy is in consequences not wanting to cross that creative artistic side and looking for some advice on that.
 Is there any specifics that you can share?
 We don't need to go deep into this.
 But what is the major struggle points that you're experiencing that you can share?
 Don't you have anything you don't want to share?
 I'd say if we try to whether it's something with screen time and we'll say if you choose to do this, then this is going to be the consequence.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Have you...
 She who does that sound like?
 She got a decent amount of D.
 She has D.
 Okay.
 All the D's in here are like, yep.
 So here's what's happening.
 She's weighing out the consequence to getting away with something.
 So this is where sometimes with a D, you hear me say you got to take a two by four, right?
 Sometimes the consequence there isn't a choice, right?
 Because if she's just going to weigh out, yeah, I'll take the consequence and I get 30 more minutes on the screen time.
 The answer is no.
 Keep in mind, the choice isn't consequences is to say you're choosing to do this.
 This is the consequence you're going to get from the choice.
 But if you're allowing them to go ahead and continue with it, then what does that say?
 We're still allowing them to make the bad choices and they can take a consequence.
 It doesn't hurt enough.
 So it makes it really difficult is, at what point do you get pain in there?
 So there has to be this crazy balance. And so for a lot of you guys probably don't, if you haven't,
 listen to our teaching on this and we talk about this a lot in the next level of life and everything.
 And you need to know this as leaders.
 If people are making bad decisions, help them to understand that their choices are leading to the bad consequences.
 We're becoming the world's biggest entitlement, victim mentality, culture, ever.
 It's insane nowadays, right?
 So help people to see the consequences that come with the bad decision.
 So when it's a teenager, especially this personality style, I mean it could be a 40 year old in your business doing the same thing.
 Well, I'm getting away with it, right?
 The old concept of hey, do it NAS for forgiveness later. No way.
 Sorry, that didn't work.
 So the key is you have to either find something that's painful enough, but the problem is no longer the consequence.
 It's that she's processing, it's okay for me to make this choice inside the family and still take the consequence.
 So if she's an adult and she wants to go make those choices and get those consequences, that's completely up to her.
 But now as parents, I feel like you guys have to step and go nose the answer no matter what.
 There is no, the consequence is as I'm saying, no, this isn't good for you.
 It's not healthy for you. You're making a bad decision and since you can't make the right decision, I'm going to make this specific decision for you.
 Right? Because I believe that your responsibility for me is a God-fearing person.
 I believe our job as parents are to raise adults not kids and make sure that we raise our children to have a relationship with their true father so that they understand the importance of that.
 So with that, I would say that there are certain things that if the consequence isn't working, then the answer is no.
 And if there is pushback or going off the wall, then we start pulling some heavy duty consequences.
 The key is, right now, we're literally perpetuating is I can handle that consequence so I'll keep making the bad decision.
 What happens when she leaves? When she leaves from now, it's she's going to start weighing out all of the consequences in life.
 That consequence isn't too bad. I'll go do this bad thing. That consequence isn't until somebody literally brings the consequence that just hurts so ridiculously bad and then she's a victim.
 Right? Well, that should not have happened. That's not my fault. The consequence should have been this and it turned out to be this. Does all that make sense?
 Yeah, it's helpful. Our older daughter, she's a couple of years older and the high SC and very compliant and you walk in her room and just everything is everything is organized and neat and the other room looks like a so-bob-bross explosion, something that just on the front of the wall,
 just on the walls, on the floor, so and she says, well, I'm okay with it. I don't understand why I need to have this clean because I don't see a problem.
 We identified with Mary Beth on the podcast. There was a lot of things we can relate with. So just struggle with that because she is very talented in those spaces.
 Yeah, there is, so one of the things you just pointed out to be a part of this family. This is acceptable. This is not.
 Now one of the things and especially young parents are having to deal with in today's society is that you can't say no to your kids and they don't have to work and they don't have to have chores and Nate, this is the worst stinking thing.
 How many are you going to do with your gen X? My gosh, we were raised on your bus, but there is a choice, right?
 Well, what do you hear from so many expert parents nowadays? You don't discipline your kids, you don't tell them no, you allow them to have all this stuff.
 It's raising horrid children, right? So for me, there are certain things that are, this is a part of the family, right? You're part of this family, you do this.
 One of those things that we've made a decision, you're going to clean your room to this extent.
 If you don't, we'll start taking things out of your room. You're defined that thing, right?
 Now the tough thing for high SC personality styles is, oh my gosh, that's such high conflict with my kids, completely understand, I may super high S, right?
 I get it. The problem is look to your responsibility to God.
 Make that decision and say, alright, what is my job here? What do I need to do?
 I'm not saying being controlling, I'm not saying being abusive, obviously, that should already be assumed in this discussion.
 Make the decisions of if you're not going to do these things, then much bigger, heavier, painful consequences,
 will cannot abuse consequences, but removing things, doing whatever, because what she's able to do is she's able to reason with this as my room.
 I get to do whatever I want to, I get to have an exploit, as long as I'm okay with it, you guys aren't doing anything about it,
 so you're communicating to her that she gets to have whatever she wants in that confined space, right?
 So it's just not quality set expectations, no? These are things that we expect of you as a teenager, as a child of this family doing these things.
 Now, D's, what's the first thing she's going to say when they put that in place?
 She, nobody, they're going to, she'll start pushing back hard. She'll start telling you, you can't do that.
 This is mine. This is, and she will give you all the things to push back on you and on top of that, at 13 she already knows how to play on your emotions.
 So she will start pulling on those. She will probably start some level of guilt transfer that it's your fault that your mean parents, that whatever.
 The harder the consequence, the bigger the response tends to be, does that make sense? So watch for that, and if you receive it, then she will feel in control.
 You do not receive it, right? You are not going to talk to your father that way and know that this does not make me a bad parent,
 and you don't reason, don't get in there and argue, don't get in, this is what's happening. If this doesn't happen, then this happens.
 I'm, and then the piece that I would explain is your responsibility as a parent to God.
 This is something that I am responsible to God for to make sure that I am raising you as somebody who's not entitled,
 who doesn't go out into the world and choose bad consequences.
 And it's okay to explain, it's not okay to reason that. Does that make sense?
 It does last piece for me is I'm a high CS, and we know what our daughter is, and so advice on how I can better speak into her life,
 because it's getting to the point where sometimes she'll even ask a question and then she'll say that, don't answer.
 And she wants to hear it from mom, because she knows mine's going to be longer than she's wanting to hear and not in line with,
 doesn't connect with her, but I don't want to quit speaking into her life and put it all on a line.
 But so many times I take it back, see trying to let her, because she's able to communicate better with her.
 So even though in personality styles and trying to lean her direction as much as I can, and I still struggle with that connection to where she's not receiving that well for me,
 trying to funnel it all through Atlanta.
 Okay, so we're going to go a little bit deeper.
 And my beliefs, all right, so this is my beliefs as a Christian.
 First off, and I'm not in the room, I haven't seen her do this, so I don't know at what level she's saying that,
 just hearing you say that knowing that she's done that more than once is very disrespectful.
 Okay, so let me teach you guys something that some of us have come to understand,
 God has never ever ever broken a covenant.
 Ever, is anybody ever looked in their Bible and seen where God has broken a covenant?
 Anyone?
 Man has changed God's covenant to fit man.
 So a lot of us follow some things today that has happened for the last 1700 years and we have no clue that God never changed his covenants.
 If God broke, I want you to just think about something as we go through this, because this is some of you are probably going to push back and feel free.
 You can be wrong.
 If God ever broke his covenant, if God ever broke a single covenant, could you have faith in salvation?
 Absolutely not, because who's to say he wouldn't change that?
 God is a God of covenant, right?
 So those 10 commandments, all 10 of them, are to be observed.
 Man changed those, not God.
 So if you want, you're not ready for it, I'm telling you you're not ready for it, you're not ready for it, read the book,
 begging Christianity, it's very important. Why am I telling you all of this?
 Because one of those is honor your father and mother.
 She's dishonoring right now. Why is she dishonoring?
 Because nobody taught you how to truly honor your parents and that it's your job to teach your kids to honor you guys.
 So parents, listen to me.
 When you do not teach your kids that it is a sin to God when they dishonor you, you're teaching them to sin.
 You on that for a second.
 If you do not teach them how to honor you, then you're teaching them to sin against God.
 Nobody's teaching us that? Nobody's saying anything. No, Jesus took everything away. Really?
 Where?
 No, Jesus took all that. You don't have to do any of that stuff.
 Why is my life a mess? Because you keep not being obedient to God.
 That's something that God is very set on, right?
 So you have to help hurt you understand. You will not dishonor me.
 You will not talk to me that way. That is not okay.
 I'm going to start teaching you what honoring your parents does look like.
 Because as long as I continue to perpetuate, it's okay to dishonor me that I'm teaching you to sin.
 And that's not good.
 I don't think it's good.
 Does anybody think that's good thing? It's not a good thing.
 So for me, these are my beliefs.
 Y'all can believe whatever you want.
 But here's what I truly understand.
 I believe the way that I honor my parents, coincides with how I honor God.
 If I don't honor the person, the people that he put in my life, I've got my mom.
 If I don't honor her, no matter what, I can disagree.
 It doesn't mean that she's going to drop off a cliff.
 I'm going to drop off a cliff.
 It doesn't mean any of that.
 It means that I better learn to honor her because if I dishonor,
 then I'm intentionally, well, I may not understand this, but I understand it now,
 then I'm intentionally sending against God.
 So I believe it's vitally important for you to teach all ten commandments
 and especially help her to see, we're going to change some things up.
 I did not realize that I was literally teaching you to sin by teaching you to talk to me.
 That's okay that you can talk to me that way.
 Right? So, whole lot of fun stuff to soak up.
 So, please feel free if you have questions about this feel free to ask.
 It's okay if you disagree, that's again, that's perfectly fine.
 Does that make sense, Justin?
 Yeah, does thank you.
 I think drilling down on a team commandments piece and we review that,
 a home is probably going to be helpful piece to take away too.
 Absolutely.
 Great thing is you get to blame God.
 Thank you, that was funny in my head.
 That's right.
 We got to look up.
 We'll talk for one more question.
 Jim?
 Question I have is I have my personal KRA with Chris and my management team.
 I don't think my leadership team has seen my KRA.
 Would you encourage me sharing KRA and us reviewing that together?
 So, Jeremy, unless there is something on it that's just like, you know what?
 This is just not a level of detail that people need to see.
 That would be one caveat.
 But otherwise, the clarity that you get by your leaders knowing, what are you focused on every day?
 I know what he focuses on.
 I know he knows the greatest value that he brings to our team.
 He hates being called a boss.
 I never call him a boss.
 I'm just going to call him a boss right now for the fun of it.
 This is the boss man.
 This is my leader.
 I think he's clarified with his team.
 You know, you're welcome.
 Absolutely.
 Time, a rally employee.
 That's such a funny thing.
 That's so good.
 It's good to go.
 Glad we got that one on the record.
 Unless there's something sensitive, I would share it because we want that clarity because
 what are we?
 We're a leadership team.
 We need unity.
 It's not a well.
 There's Jeremy.
 I really don't know what he does.
 I'm just asking us to do all this stuff, but yeah, he says we're unified and we're all doing this stuff together.
 But I really don't know what he does.
 There's a lack of trust in unity there.
 So I would share that detail and discuss it because it sets these guys up to better also serve you and
 hence internal client of the business, your my leader.
 How can I help you in this role?
 It improves again our relationship.
 Because when there's greater levels of clarity and trust on the leadership team, what do we do better together?
 We're going to communicate?
 We make decisions better together because we recognize this is the team of the dot on on.
 As leaders, I don't know if you've even hit on that yet.
 I'll just hit on it now.
 But as leaders, the leadership team you're on is your team.
 So for instance, like the leadership team I'm on in our company, that is my just to use it for clear communication.
 It's my number one team.
 And then I have my team that I lead the success. My team gets it that I'm on the leadership team.
 And my job is to lead them to be successful in their roles and lead this team to be successful.
 How do we get all this high levels of quality communication?
 Yeah, and I'll just add to that.
 So often as leaders, we are doing more leadership stuff, versus task stuff.
 Well it's easy for your team to see the task that you do.
 But they may not see the leadership pieces that you're doing. And that could create what I've heard call it a gap of information.
 Because now what's happened and as I've got team looking at me going, like Joel's so much, what does Jeremy really do?
 What is he actually doing day-to-day?
 And so because of that, they can start filling that gap within correct information because we're not communicating about it.
 We're not talking about it.
 So if I have there to talk about it to share and set my team up,
 hey, let me share with you what's going on where I'm at, where I'm working on the leading you guys better.
 Even though it may not be a task you see me do, here's what I'm working on on the leading.
 Those are the things that can help with that, help your team understand.
 How are you doing, what are you doing, where are you leading them?
 And that kind of stuff. Does that make sense?
 Two caveats to that one. Everybody here, we're talking leadership team.
 Does that mean that you go, explain your care, everybody in the team below you?
 That's an important piece, like we're saying, you are a team, you should be a strong team together.
 The second piece of this, and Jeremy, and this is to everybody,
 sometimes as the leader, work concerned that our people think that we're not working hard enough,
 or not doing the right things, or if we spend some time on some process,
 and stuff, we tell ourselves these lies, right?
 So for me, I'm actually, and especially once this event is over, I got a lot of work to do.
 I've got a lot of things to do to literally set up another aspect of our business to make it to make the growth more successful, right?
 I got a lot of things to do, and so I'm going to have less time doing things at the office,
 and more time getting things done.
 But for me, the explanation is, hey guys, this is what's going on, and this is wrong, and it'll be not, I need to justify my time.
 I own the business, I could do whatever I want, I don't suggest that, but the key is, if I'm going to make sure that I'm communicating clearly
 and keep everybody on the right page, then I'm going to help them to understand what's going on, that's the whole team.
 But when it comes to the leadership team, a big piece is, when they know what you, so let me say it this way.
 Every one of my team in here does not want me doing administrative tasks.
 Why?
 Hey man, that, that A man was because he screws things up, but let me tell you the other bigger reason,
 because if I'm focusing on tasks or administrative stuff or things that I shouldn't be doing,
 then I'm not doing the things that my role is responsible for to put money in their bank account.
 Hello, listen to what I just said.
 So my leadership team wants to know that my focus as far as the results are making these things happen.
 That I'm making an event happen, and that I'm getting my butt up here and teaching, that I'm doing things and speaking events
 or the podcast or whatever.
 So it takes on a different turn when you recognize, oh wait a second, I don't have to be worried about what my team knows,
 because we, just this ridiculous little lot of that we tell ourselves, instead, you can even ask them.
 So here's the things that I do, what do you want me doing, and I promise you they will always point to the things that makes the business more money.
 They don't want you focused on the little things that you shouldn't be doing in the first place.
 So otherwise, if they want you to be stuck in the task, you probably need to get them out the thing, right?
 Because their perspective isn't correct or you could probably just teach them.
 But does that make sense what I'm saying?
 So the more that they see, wow, Jeremy's focusing on higher level things, praise God, because that's what's bringing in more money,
 and that goes into our pockets, especially for those of you that do profit sharing,
 think about it, what do your team members want, more profit?
 So if I'm doing stuff that's holding back the profits, now they're pissed, you know, Chris, go get away from here, go do those other bigger things, does that make sense?
 Fantastic, all right, great questions guys, good job.
 Well, there you have a folks that is just one of the Q&A sessions that we have at the next level of the ship live event.
 Great questions, great stuff, it is fab, I love being able to do this in person and helping people with their businesses,
 with their life, lots of personal stuff as well.
 And I've got to tell you just phenomenal responses, all of the feedback coming back on this event, how many folks were like,
 this is exactly where we are right now, this is exactly what we needed, it was so great, it's great to be able to, this is our mission,
 this is our purpose is to help people, you know, change their lives, change their businesses, help them get to the right perspective.
 So we love doing this event, we love doing everything that we do here, it's, we have a blast.
 And if you have questions, you want us to answer real free to email us, you can send that email to podcast@christlicard.com
 as well. Hopefully we will see you at the next level of the ship live event next year.
 Well folks, as always take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]