 Confrontation, conflict, and control.
 How to engage others appropriately that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Hey folks, welcome to the show.
 Hope you are finding the show less confrontational than other things in your life.
 Today we're talking about confrontation, conflict, and we're talking about control.
 These are three big things that I think everybody is experiencing nowadays.
 It's a different world, right?
 But let me just ask this question.
 How many of you out there listening to the show love conflict?
 Anybody, anyone, bealer, bealer?
 I see that hand.
 There's at least one guy out there that loves conflict.
 Really, I've been doing this for many a decade and I can tell you I've only found a couple
 people that actually just love conflict.
 They really enjoy it.
 That's the thing that they get a lot of work from.
 The rest of us actually don't like it, especially depending upon your personality styles
 if you're a high-ess, if you're a high-c, you hate high-high-s, hate conflict.
 These really don't like conflict.
 There are some days that are like, "I don't have a problem with it."
 But if you ask them, "Do you like it?"
 Most of the time they will say, "No, I actually don't like it.
 It doesn't bother me."
 The other personality styles that's usually a big pain in the butt, right?
 We live in this emotionally charged, gas lit world today where people are ready to go
 off at any time.
 There's a lot of folks out there.
 For a lot of you, you see, some of these folks is just being straight up bullies.
 People that are just going around, knock in heads because they can.
 The crazy thing is that we have this environment that's allowing it.
 We have this environment that's promoting it.
 We have the ability for people and I think you heard me talking about somebody that I was
 dealing with in a store.
 I was trying to explain a situation and they just lost it.
 I was just one ballistic and never actually heard what I was going to discuss with them.
 So I just got my money back and left their store.
 We are living in this type of environment.
 Especially if your personality style is one that cannot stand conflict, then this can be
 difficult to navigate.
 I get it.
 Like I say, I am a very high S.
 I'm a high S.
 Decently high I about a 40 D in a 25 C.
 So for me, I get it.
 I understand what that's all about.
 The difference is that it's something that I've been working with and teaching people how to handle
 for a very long time.
 That's something that God showed me how to deal with this type of conflict and control issues.
 So the great thing is is that when you have the tools, it changes the way you handle it.
 It does not make you like it.
 There are many situations in my younger life where I just took on people's control issues.
 There's many times that because I didn't push back, I didn't have tools.
 It was easy for people to put their responsibility on me.
 I'm not this is not me being a victim.
 This is not me saying that there aren't things I screwed up in my life.
 I screwed up a whole ton of stuff in my life.
 This whole business is built on screwing up, but learning how to overcome those screw ups.
 So what am I pointing at?
 That if you don't have the tools, it is incredibly difficult to navigate.
 You can do that.
 So on today's show, I want to help you steer clear of irrational controlling people.
 I also want you to recognize that it might be you.
 You can think about the times that you feel out of control.
 What is that light?
 So how do we handle this?
 How do we deal with this?
 Hopefully how do we recognize if it's us as well?
 Who's going to be joining me on the show today is Brian Alex.
 Our resident controlling bully confrontational person.
 I can't believe you just said that.
 Brian is going to be joining us on the show because we've had some fantastic conversations
 about this and just a, hey, how do we deal with this?
 So when we come back, we're going to talk about what we risk losing when we avoid conflict
 all together.
 Hey folks, if you're feeling stuck anxious, not good enough or held back in life, then you
 need to go through our next level of life.
 That's why we created this two day event process.
 The power of next level of life is that it helps you discover your specific root system.
 Why you believe what you do, how you make decisions and why you are where you are in life.
 You learn the things that are holding you back in life and how to overcome them.
 You'll come away having found healing and ready to start living with purpose and authenticity.
 So if you're ready to stop struggling and if you're ready to find greater peace, then head
 over to christlucard.com/nextlevellife.
 The next level of life is waiting for you.
 That's christlucardo.com/nextlevellife today.
 Alright, we are back on the show.
 Welcome Brian Alex.
 I'm here just to make things more controversial.
 I just want to bring a god of afflict to the show, right?
 Not to set anybody's reality, but this is going to be high conflict.
 So it's funny because neither one of us like conflict, neither one of us enjoy it, but both
 of us have experienced an enormous amount of conflict in life that I don't think we're
 any different than most well.
 I don't know.
 It's got to be the so we're both the soly and that's what it is.
 It's just there.
 I mean, it's so funny to hear, I don't know about your family, but my family always used to say,
 "We're not angry, we're just passionate."
 I'm like, "Oh my gosh, I think everybody's pissed."
 We've both experienced a lot of conflict.
 And I think we have both put ourselves in situations throughout our lives that is focused
 on helping people.
 You've been a missionary for many, many years and ministry for many years come from ministry
 of family.
 I've been in ministry, put myself in a place to lead coach, guide, direct, even folks through,
 we've done over 400 next level of life here, helping people through the most painful, difficult
 parts of it.
 We've put ourselves in places for conflict.
 So we may have experienced this a time or two, but I just wanted to have you on the show to
 kind of walk through this because you had some fantastic questions about what do we do
 with this, things that people need to hear.
 So take it away.
 We're not bringing it back.
 Bring the conflict.
 No, it is true.
 I mean, as you were setting up the opening there, it is a gas lit kind of world that we're in.
 And the phenomenon that we're experiencing in this generation with everybody having a platform.
 Everyone has a mic in front of them.
 Social media has given everyone an outlet for their rage and venting.
 It creates, you know, it alleviates the necessity for a filter because, you know, we don't
 care what somebody else feels on the other side.
 I'm glad you said that because there was a test that was done.
 I wish I had it.
 It was done a few years ago where they took people's responses on social media and compared
 it to their face to face responses.
 And man, they were shocked at go ahead and say this now, you said this to this person here, say
 it to their face.
 Oh no, oh my gosh.
 She's a different world.
 It's a different world.
 Exactly.
 Yeah.
 And so what do we do with that?
 I mean, you know, for those listening, you know, we've been through a lot of com.
 Everybody's been through a lot of conflict.
 You can't avoid the circumstance itself.
 But I wanted to tease out a few things that we've been doing or teaching here because I think
 it's so helpful to people to understand.
 There's a difference between seeking out conflict, going and looking for it.
 Proverbs 26 talks about a person who is passing by and medals in a quarrel that is not his
 own.
 It's like one who grabs a dog by the ears.
 You know, they just have that picture in your mind.
 Idiot.
 You idiot.
 Why you do that.
 But we've all done that.
 We all medal in things or say things or don't have that filter.
 And so, you know, if we're not being that idiot, okay, so we want to put that category aside
 where we've got a ton of other material.
 How that is all social media nowadays.
 Yeah, it is.
 It's you're watching the quarrels and jumping in.
 It's like Jerry Springer is everyday life now.
 But we actually don't.
 Oh, my gosh.
 What a great comment.
 What a great comment.
 I used to remember thinking how does people sit down and watch that in your life?
 It's like, yeah, it's like something that we craved as just a species.
 And now it's just normal life.
 But we dealt with this a lot last year on the podcast.
 So what I don't want to do is set this episode up to rehearse any of that.
 But I will mention, I mean, we did a two-parter called surviving in a world of monsters and
 victims.
 We did another one about how to self manage through tough emotions.
 And then also what to do when you feel out of control.
 But what I wanted to do in this episode is talk about what do you do when someone else
 is out of control.
 How do you keep your cool and not go off the rails along with them?
 And there are things that we are after in this world.
 When you walked into that store and you just mentioned the instance, you were after
 something.
 There was something important to you, a product that you had purchased, didn't work out the
 way you thought and you weren't there to rail anybody.
 You were there to understand what had happened.
 Maybe get a different product.
 It's a different one.
 Give a more money.
 But instead it went off the rails real quick.
 And so you stepped aside and let it go off the rails crash in the ditch and you just walked
 on.
 And I would love for this episode to be a stress relieving moment where we can understand
 what's going on and prove our skill set for dealing with conflict.
 And the next time that it arises, it can blow up but we don't have to.
 Yeah.
 And I think if you haven't listened to that episode, you need to go back to it.
 I don't eat right now currently.
 I don't remember the title of it.
 But the stress is looking to me and I'm just breaking the record.
 I don't know what the title was.
 Good, this gracious.
 It's not like we don't do eight ton of these episodes.
 But just the concept of me going in and saying, hey, here's the thing and where I was
 going to go was, we were talking about a speed on a hotspot.
 It was a specific carrier, phone carrier and cellular carrier.
 And I was just going to say, hey, here's the discussion that we had.
 And I was going to say, I don't think I purchased enough.
 And just the assumption of where I was going this person just lost.
 I mean, just want ballistic, very controlling accused me of accusing them.
 I hadn't even said anything yet.
 But that I was, it was an accusation of something that I was going to do, which I hadn't
 done.
 So just that whole situation, if you haven't heard that.
 Yeah, and it seems like because I've heard the other side of that conversation as well.
 It seems like a lot of what that other person was feeling.
 Whatever that was, it was triggering, however it came up.
 But they immediately went into a defense posture.
 And then after that incident, they kept repeating, I just don't like being accused.
 I just don't like this.
 I just don't, and there's this defense mechanism.
 And I wonder if a lot of us, and I'm speaking for myself, I do, I wonder if a lot of us
 feel that way.
 That's right.
 I'm not a high D, and you know, I, yeah, I, I deas for the dozer, bulldozer, and you know,
 I can be like that guy, and I don't want to be that guy, but I can feel that sometimes.
 And that's a lot of that defense mechanism comes up.
 And so how do we not spring that trap or how do we not step in it?
 So that's what we want to get.
 The first thing you're talking about for the person who is losing control.
 So the first thing is, and one of the things that we discovered you and I a long time ago
 was, you know, if I asked you, do you feel out of control when you're frustrated your answer is no?
 Yeah, that's the high C part of me.
 Yeah, that part of definition matters.
 Right.
 And if I said, well, are you frustrated?
 Absolutely.
 Are you angry?
 Yes, I am.
 Because my idea of out of control is I'm, you know, I'm going ballistic, I'm going not, I got,
 I got stands. I'm really an Italian mode.
 Right, totally brilliant.
 It's a little bit of my, you know, it's like that.
 I'm like, no, I'm very composed on the exterior and then Chris would ask, well, how
 are you feeling inside?
 Oh, yeah, I'm off the right.
 Right, yeah.
 And so I think the first thing we have to understand is this concept of being in control.
 We try to control people, we try to control situations all the time.
 That's one of the things we teach in the next level of life is when you have a trigger, a
 situation that happens, you try to either can, and if you aren't prepared, if you're not
 in a good space, then you immediately try to control either the people or the situation.
 Right?
 The crazy thing is, and everybody has heard this said, but it is true.
 Control is an illusion.
 You can't control another person except physically.
 You can only highly suggest something to their mind.
 They have to receive it.
 They have to accept it.
 In this specific situation that we're talking about or any situation just like this, the key is,
 is that in that moment, this is my assumption, he assumed something was going to be said
 that would potentially put him in an out of control situation.
 Yeah, and can I, I want you to pick up right there.
 I just want to insert here, because I just had the same conversation with one of my children.
 That when we assume, we make room for lots of accusations.
 And so in his mind, that was the first mistake that he stepped in.
 That's the land-mine he stepped on was the assumption which created space for accusations
 which he immediately began to launch.
 Yo, yeah.
 So he's assuming I'm going to accuse him of something.
 He's flat out saying that I am actually accusing of something which is not in the conversation.
 Then he accuses me of accusing him.
 And so the key is that again, I'm able to just stand there and watch it happen.
 I'm just like watching a movie.
 Just letting him do his thing and when he took a breath, I just said, are you okay?
 Of course I'm okay, I'm okay.
 You know, there's just still just raging, right?
 And the thing is, is that the reason why I'm able to watch this is because I'm not losing
 worth.
 What's the immediate thing that happens in his mind is, oh heck no, I'm not going to have another
 customer accuse me of saying something that I didn't, you know, whatever, whatever the
 lie was that he told himself in that moment.
 And it is a lie because it's not something that's happened, right?
 And so that's the key.
 He has this fear.
 What is fear?
 Fear is the assumption that something bad is about to happen.
 That's why we get fearful all the time, right?
 There's two times two types of fear.
 You're being chased by something that can eat you, legitimate fear.
 Everything else is that fear that is fake and it's not real yet.
 It hasn't happened yet.
 It's an assumption.
 It doesn't mean that you're not going to be accurate.
 The problem is it's wasting time.
 That's causing all emotional drain.
 That's causing, you know, worth loss.
 It's causing you to go to a defensive mode.
 So it's causing all of these things to happen and like you just shared.
 It also causes this process of how am I going to control the person or the situation.
 For some people, butterfly kicks in and leaving the situation, just angry is their way of
 control.
 For other people, it is this how am I going to control this person I go and controlling mode.
 You know, you're not going to accuse me of this thing.
 You are doing this, you're being a horrible person.
 So what is it projecting to me?
 It's a guilt transfer, right?
 Or doing something that is wrong.
 It is wrong.
 It is a lie.
 It's a mentality.
 To a victim mentality.
 But it would be different if I actually said something that was accusatory.
 It would be different if I actually blamed him for something that he did not do.
 None of that's happened yet.
 So the problem is is he's now projecting on me guilt.
 You did this.
 You are a bad person.
 You're not going to make me a bad person.
 So he's actually trying to set a healthy boundary in a very unhealthy way.
 How did I said you said something and it wasn't, and I was lying.
 If I had said his reality, if I had accused him of something and it wasn't true, then
 hey, his response is actually half way decent.
 It could have used a heck of a lot of the man anger.
 It could have been all that could have changed and been just put back and no sir.
 That is not what was said.
 I would never say that.
 That's not exactly.
 It could have been handled differently.
 But none of that happened.
 So the key for us to recognize is what is first that there is some sort of trigger.
 I want to be careful with that term because a lot of people actually nowadays are actually
 holding on to that triggered me.
 Now is my excuse to be a victim.
 We're using great perspective to create victim mentality.
 It's just terrible.
 But triggers are real.
 A situation happened.
 Something happened in his mind and what we talked about on the other episode is it could have been.
 He was having a bad day.
 Maybe he's having a fight with his wife.
 I don't know.
 I don't know.
 Either way, if I jump in at this point, if I take on his struggle, it now becomes mine.
 Now I'm the one struggling because then what do I do?
 I go into the defense of mud myself.
 I didn't even say that.
 That's not what I said.
 I'm two people are battling it out in a defense of posture and it doesn't get anywhere.
 Nobody wins.
 Nobody wins.
 So the key is to focus on when you see somebody struggling.
 This is the biggest key for you as the person on the other side of the control battle.
 On the other side of the conflict.
 The moment you see somebody else struggling and you receive it, you're done.
 You're now a part of the year.
 You're now a part of this process.
 You are now going to be defensive.
 Everything you think everything you say is going to be emotionally handcuffed to the other
 person's struggle.
 I think that's the biggest key right there.
 As soon as we get into that emotional posture, we lose perspective.
 We lose the ability to think logically.
 You can't get perspective at that point.
 We go off the rails right within.
 Now we're tied to it and wherever that thing ends up, which is going to be a train wreck,
 that's where we're going to go.
 Sure, leave it all end up really well.
 I did in a lot of train wreck because I'm sitting here thinking about it.
 Wow.
 How am I?
 That's the whole life.
 For us, if you can start by saying to yourself, this is the toughest thing.
 We said a lot around here, watch it like a movie.
 Watch it like a movie.
 Watch it like a movie.
 You know what's going to happen.
 If you're watching it like a movie, you're not emotionally invested.
 You're not emotionally handcuffed.
 Let me say it that way.
 So when you see the thing in the moment I see the person starting to lose control, I have to
 immediately tell myself, this is their struggle.
 Now if I have done something I must take responsibility.
 There are times that I will have said something in a wrong way.
 And then there have been times I've seen somebody start to lose it.
 And I'm like, I'm so sorry, I said that the wrong way.
 Let me rephrase that.
 And I can see that I said something.
 Now should they be responding that way?
 No.
 But I said something incorrect.
 But you had to hand in it and I'll correct it.
 I'm sorry.
 Let me rephrase it and I'll say it a different way and you can see them go, oh yeah.
 And then it helps them to get out of that.
 And you're talking about mostly the seas in the office.
 And that's definitely a possibility.
 But I mean, I've known that.
 And you're here in the background in the cockpit full of.
 And so Chris has to come in and rescue.
 That is not 100% accurate Chris, what kind of you are.
 Oh, yeah.
 But I mean, seriously, when you see the struggle, the key is if you are caring more about
 the other person.
 If you were thinking more about the other person, then you can see the immediate struggle and
 ask yourself the question, did I have something to do with this immediately?
 What is my foot?
 So coming from a very guilty background for the first half of my life, it helps me to be able
 to immediately check on myself, right?
 Because before I would just immediately take blame, I screwed something up.
 I heard somebody.
 It's all my fault.
 Where now it's a great tool to actually go, hey, did I just do something?
 And if I did take responsibility quickly, fix it, right?
 If I did not, then is there a way I can diffuse the situation?
 It doesn't mean that I can.
 It doesn't mean that it's going to work.
 But I'm asking the question, can I cut this thing short quickly?
 Right?
 If I can jump in, there are certain situations where somebody is wound up so fast, there's nothing
 you can do, you just got to let that fuse burn out.
 And then like I say, watching him just do his thing until he's done and then just go, okay?
 Just to see where are you now?
 So the key is if I can take a look and see where they are, if I can see how they're responding.
 And I can make sure that I didn't do anything wrong, check myself.
 If I check myself and I didn't do something wrong.
 And again, that's a key.
 Did I do something wrong?
 Because a lot of folks will go, become victims as well.
 Well, of course, I didn't do anything wrong.
 You're just acting like a jerk.
 Well, maybe you said something.
 Take responsibility, solve it if you can't try to diffuse it if you can't let it play
 out.
 Just don't emotionally get handcuffed.
 So that was good.
 That's a lot.
 That is, yeah, that's in the nutshell what we're doing.
 We're going to try to unpack here in the next 10, 15 minutes.
 And so moving towards that practical side, it was funny.
 I know you've been unpacking a bit of a storage unit and there were some boxes on the floor.
 And I saw this old green notebook from Dale Carnegie.
 Now we both went through that four.
 Yeah, well, we're 15 years ago at least.
 Back at Dave Ramses.
 And I remember in reading through some of his materials, he talks about how to win friends
 and influence people.
 He's got some great stuff in there about argument.
 And one of the quotes that I pulled out was, you can't win an argument.
 It's just not possible.
 You can't because if you lose, you lose it.
 And if you win it, you still lose it.
 And the idea there is that even if you win in you were right.
 And you were right.
 How good does that feel to us, seeds to be right.
 But even when you're right, you may have lost in the relationship.
 You may have lost something infinitely more valuable.
 And so what I want to get to--
 What's the concept being winning an argument?
 Right.
 Not perspective, not discussion.
 And that's where that's the key here.
 You never win.
 Nobody ever wins an argument.
 If you're right, it doesn't cause a win.
 It causes a loss.
 You only win when you can help somebody to see better perspective.
 And that's where you're going.
 It's like, yeah, exactly.
 It's like we have to take that off the table.
 And I know I'm speaking to some other D or C's out there.
 When we talk about just taking the winning and losing off the table.
 Because it's really not about that.
 So let's take that frame off the set.
 And what we're going to put on is really gaining some perspective,
 understanding what's really at loss and how much we either need to engage,
 or we need to step back.
 Because there are some things that need to be resolved at the end of the day.
 So sometimes you're in that situation where somebody's just being the bully,
 and they're blowing up.
 And you've got to let that fuse go.
 And you let that relationship go.
 Or you put a boundary there.
 It's just not worth going after.
 But there's other situations where in that one case,
 you had a product or a service to return or we're in a relationship that is valuable
 to us.
 And we want to maintain that.
 And so it's worth that confrontation coming to resolve.
 And so I want to help people navigate to resolve.
 And that's what we're going to get into with the three steps coming up.
 Yeah, I think the big key here is what you just said is,
 how can we respond?
 What can we do about it?
 Again, if I put myself in the shoes of the guy who lost it,
 if I just go, gosh, I feel out of control right now.
 I don't like this.
 I think this person's accusing me of something.
 And I just gain perspective.
 Sir, are you saying that I said this?
 And let's say that I said yes you did.
 Well, if it's about the argument again,
 now keep in mind, I'm somebody who actually
 walked in the store to give them more money,
 thinking that I did not purchase enough of what I needed.
 If he would just stop for a moment and go, you know what?
 It doesn't matter.
 You know, the old concept, the customer's always right.
 I don't think that is, you know, it's not accurate.
 What I say is the customer always needs to be honored,
 honor the customer, right?
 But if you just even don't look at it as a customer,
 it's just a two people talking.
 If I will just stop and gain as much perspective as I possibly can,
 then what I may find is, is one,
 I may actually be able to shed light on a misunderstanding.
 You said this.
 Okay, so here's the thing.
 That's actually not possible or that you know,
 whatever the thing is, if I can shed light on a situation,
 then maybe I can shed light on a misunderstanding.
 I can help the other person to see something.
 I can keep myself in check and not put them on the defensive
 by me getting defensive.
 You know, there's a whole lot of stuff I can do,
 like, you know, so the way that I did respond.
 Instead of getting in there and battling with them,
 it caused him to come down.
 Now, it did cause him to try and explain himself over and over again
 about how, you know,
 I never did say anything, which again still was never something
 that was said.
 But still, the key is, is that it diffused,
 at least at that moment and allowed him to see,
 oh crap, I'm acting like a jerk right in this moment, right?
 Still, okay, like, oh.
 So if I'm that person and I just go, you know what,
 let's say I did just get accused of something.
 What if I don't lose my control?
 What if I don't lose worth?
 What if instead, I try to actually walk through this process,
 is the thing I was just accused of really that big of a deal?
 Is it, you know, if I was accused?
 What is it matter?
 Does it matter?
 Is it something big?
 Is it something worth fighting for?
 Is it something worth, you know, it's just not, right?
 So much like we feel like we have to go and take that opinion
 from that person and change it.
 Yeah, well, yeah, yeah.
 Well, who cares if that's what they think?
 I mean, at a certain point, there's kind of this,
 you know, risk and loss that happens and you're okay,
 well, he can think that or she can think that.
 And it doesn't affect me, but we let it.
 I think that's the emotional attachment thing is we allow
 other people's perception or opinion, especially when if the
 relationship isn't valuable to us and there's nothing to go
 after there, nothing to defend there for the rapport
 for the relationship, sake.
 It's okay, and maybe this is freeing for some people.
 I know it is for me as a C.
 It's okay sometimes to just let people hold that perspective
 and not feel like I have to go and change that.
 Exactly. Exactly.
 That is the key.
 And the funny thing is let's say I'm the one being the jerk, right?
 Let's say I come in, which of course is just that would never happen.
 That is terrible.
 But let's just say that I was.
 And I did accuse him of something.
 What he may discover is that I'm feeling out of control.
 And let's say I'm a high-ess or a high-c.
 And I feel like I have to puff myself up and build myself up to go,
 I'm going to have to attack this person to get my way.
 Because I know how customer service people are, they're just going to bully me and blah blah.
 Right?
 If he stays calm and doesn't react and doesn't receive,
 doesn't even have to receive the accusation.
 If he helps me through the process, guess what might happen.
 I might actually recognize that I'm being a jerk.
 I might actually recognize that I didn't have to say what I said.
 And that maybe I wasn't actually being 100% honest myself.
 And then I'll change my tune at the end.
 But there's no way you could know that won't you lose it.
 If you're not using the tools, if you're not trying to stay in control, you just have to get that out.
 So what do we do about this?
 Well, how to keep conflict healthy and boundaries in place is what we're going to discuss when we come back right after this.
 Thank you.
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time,
 then you know the number one issue when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships,
 is having a lack of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life,
 it all starts with having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with.
 Whether it be at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to Chrissacard.com/store and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your team two day.
 Get it for your family members.
 Today, as you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to Chrissacard.com/store today.
 Alright, so Brian, take it away.
 How do we keep healthy boundaries in place and keep conflict healthy?
 Right. So I know for me, and this is probably on the de-side of things.
 I'm one of those that don't mind the conflict, especially if there's something I feel like there's worth going after.
 And I'll bulldoze through that.
 But I know that I'm also kind of in quotes that guy.
 Sometimes when it comes to, I just got to get it done and I'm just there to do the business.
 But I want to help folks, I want to help myself here.
 So just to mention, high-dc, high-cd, I don't remember which one's higher, is your-
 - C's higher? - It toggles the D, the D is higher in the natural.
 Naturalness is higher in the adaptive.
 I mean, but this is upper 90s on both.
 Yeah. So we're talking about somebody who can be in all task mode, not people mode.
 You do have INS.
 I have a 40-i-agg, yeah. So decent.
 That can be there, but what we're talking about is, is when you are in all task mode,
 you can, you know, that concept of that pitbulling something.
 You just, not go like, oh, it's something worth fighting for.
 And I think that's important for a lot of deeds and seas to hear out there,
 is that sometimes you can go into the, well, the person doesn't matter in this moment.
 Especially on the seat, well, on both the NC, but especially on the C side,
 a lot of times it can be, the person does not matter the facts matter.
 Or what I believe the facts are or the accuracy.
 Or if I'm feeling out of control internally, it's so funny.
 You know, for some of us like this that are wired in this way,
 we tend not to emot a lot.
 In fact, one of my daughters was telling me the other day,
 Dad, you don't, you don't really, you know, express the emotion,
 sometimes that you're feeling.
 So I'll ask you if there's something wrong and you're like, no, why would you ask that?
 You know, and it's funny.
 We were, we were at a restaurant and sitting, or standing outside waiting.
 And I remember in my mind feeling happy.
 I remember the emotion of happiness.
 I could even feel the, you know, the tension in my cheeks, where you know that there's some
 smile muscles happening.
 And I catch my phone.
 You know, I casually just turned to the side and the window on the outside was reflective.
 And I saw myself and I was shocked.
 I had zero emotion on my face that even I could discern.
 And I knew I was smiling.
 And so I think there's, there's, there's where, you know, for those of us that don't have a high,
 I, you know, potential there.
 We need to be self aware enough of how we're coming across, how we're transmitting,
 what it is that we're thinking or feeling at the time,
 and not get emotionally bound to where the conversation is going.
 So this is, this is kind of the mind feel that we want to walk through with the next couple of steps.
 So here's the question.
 You've mentioned already about keeping it about the other person.
 Right.
 Okay.
 So I want, I want to unpack that a little bit because one thing that I've noticed about you,
 and we've mentioned, you know, some others before that, in regularly engage in some kind of
 debate online in a public forum, I've mentioned, you know, the, I guess, a couple of different
 politicians or psychologists out there like Jordan Peterson, others when, when they're in some kind of an
 emotionally heated debate or some, they seem to keep their cool and you do it too.
 And you deal with people that are frequently, even in what we do here, or in some of the other business
 situations that we're in, it can get tense and there's some heat in the situation in the environment,
 in the room, in the circumstance, but you maintain your composure, what's going on in your head?
 How do we do that?
 So, and I, I don't do it all the time.
 There's a place that I struggle and that is excessive, any measure of it should be excessive,
 but excessive victim mentality.
 That's where I struggle.
 When I, because I was not raised, no matter what, pull up your bootstraps.
 My gosh, you know, do not sit in the mud and the mire and continue to complain and, you know,
 whine and all that.
 So, I, I think that is probably my weakness is when it is nonstop and it won't stop.
 Right?
 The great thing is as we have phenomenal clients that will see things struggle through it, but work through it,
 right?
 That's the key.
 You got to work through it.
 You got to fix it, right?
 But what I get to a place where it is a, oh my gosh, this person, it doesn't matter what you do.
 If you poured, you know, a bucket of gold in their lap right now and gave them an ice cream on top of it.
 Then everything else is that the gold's probably too heavy.
 Bucket of gold with ice cream on top of it.
 Okay.
 The, the gold's too heavy in their lap and the ice cream with the wrong flavor.
 I mean, it's just like, come on, right?
 It's never perfect.
 But it's never perfect. So, I even can be at a place where, you know, and you've seen Jordan actually,
 you know, be phenomenal and have a spot where it's like, oh, that's too far.
 The key is the reason why I'm able to stay for the most part calm is because I'm watching the other person
 and not emotionally handcuffing myself to that person.
 Right?
 So, when I'm watching somebody else's struggle,
 the, and even when they attack me, that's, that's the toughest part because doing what we do for
 living, we help people get in out of control situations to discover things so that they can get control of themselves.
 Right?
 Well, if you have the right person, especially D's, these are, by far, the most that will attack back.
 And it will become, it's all about you.
 This is your fault Chris.
 Is this, you're supposed to solve this for me and yours, you know, all that stuff.
 And in those moments, it's like, so it's my fault that you can't do this.
 And they're like, dang it.
 You know, I just can't win.
 And the key is, is not being, not receiving the stuff.
 So I say it over and over and over again and sometimes I watch people and they still don't get it.
 Don't receive it.
 Watch it like a movie, recognize that the person is struggling and stay focused on that.
 Only receive anything that's your responsibility.
 If they do say something and you did it, take responsibility.
 But if they do it in a really jerky tone, maybe you can push back and say, hey, you're absolutely
 right in my bad.
 I'm so sorry, take responsibility.
 Can you phrase out a different one?
 You know, could you be less jerky?
 You know, you just say, I experienced you as being really rude the way you just said that, you know?
 And those are terms that we phrases that I've learned.
 I've picked up since being here is how are you experiencing X?
 How, what are you experiencing right now?
 And how are you receiving what I just said or how did you receive that?
 Those are phrases that we use.
 They're non-triggering.
 Well, what it does is it allows that perspective to be gained.
 It does and it takes away the accusation.
 So if I say, Brian, I'm experiencing you as being rude right now, then I'm not saying, Brian, you're
 being rude.
 Because I would set that reality and now I don't have the opportunity to say, well, here's
 what I'm experiencing.
 Here's what I'm sensing.
 Well, what's the thing you just immediately are going to be defensive?
 No, I'm not being rude.
 You're being a jerk.
 Oh, okay.
 Then it's just, you know, it's not the war.
 That's the same.
 Or how did you receive what I said?
 Like, you know, watching somebody's response.
 And for me, I can, it's not about you.
 It's about the other person, right?
 So if I can see that I said something in a person responded away that didn't align, because
 that we watch everybody, everybody's body language.
 You know, for what we do here, it gives you so much information.
 So if I see that somebody received something off or, you know, didn't receive it well or whatever,
 then I'll ask the question, how did you receive what I just said?
 Well, I think that was rude, Chris.
 Okay, what part of it was rude?
 Why was it rude?
 Well, I feel like you attacked me.
 What part was attacking?
 Well, it wasn't actually attacking.
 It's just that it hurt.
 Okay, well, is that the same?
 You know, I mean, then it allows me to have the discussion.
 And it's funny when we do self-examined, because that's what you're helping them, you
 know, to increase their self-awareness and self-examined.
 When we do that a lot of times, we realize, oh, that wasn't the intention at all.
 That actually wasn't what how I took it.
 And we realized that a lot of what we were just talking about earlier about fear and just this
 imaginary world that we live in and go back and listen to our two-parter on this surviving
 in a world of monsters and victims, we do this to ourselves all the time.
 So yeah, keeping it about the other person.
 And something else that I think is really important, what's speaking of personality styles,
 of speaking to the C personality style.
 And we're talking about a very high C. And it's only, you know, I have done this for 20
 some years now with personality styles.
 And I still don't understand this piece.
 I understand it a lot more than I think most people do, but there's still a piece that is
 a struggle.
 So something that is the more you recognize this, the better you'll be able to communicate
 with C's, the definition is important.
 Like we talked about earlier, if I say, are you feeling out of control?
 No, I'm not feeling out of control.
 I wouldn't.
 Well, raise it like that at all.
 Exactly.
 Well, you sound angry.
 Well, of course I'm angry.
 Okay.
 So what are we talking about?
 Definition matters.
 When we make the jokes about, if it's not a hundred percent accurate to the C and so
 if it's not, if a C is doing good and it's not a hundred percent accurate, they can have
 a conversation about it.
 They're still going to struggle with that not being accurate.
 If a C is losing control, if it's one percent inaccurate, it's one hundred percent inaccurate
 and that becomes the bottom.
 If you're guilty of one part of the law, you're guilty of the whole law.
 That's right.
 So we're a biblical.
 It begins.
 Yeah.
 These are biblical.
 I'm not.
 I'm not.
 So when you look at this, I have had to spend time watching somebody battle something that
 I have said and then go, you know, like, are you feeling out of control?
 No, I'm not feeling out of control.
 Okay.
 Shoot.
 I have five questions that I now have to ask before I can get them to see that they're
 feeling out of control.
 And we joke about it.
 It's like a circle.
 I'll walk the person around, bone, bone, bone, bone, bone, bone.
 Now, about that control thing.
 Oh my gosh, I never saw that one.
 So all of that is me looking and can, you know, carry about the other person and asking
 the question, okay, they didn't get what I just said.
 I can battle the crap out of it, right?
 Because this is what I do for a living and I absolutely know this person is out of control.
 Does it do me any good to try and prove that I'm right?
 Zero.
 None whatsoever.
 So instead of going, you should, you are out of control, Brian.
 I can prove it to you.
 Look at how anger you are.
 Look at, you know, that's a waste of time.
 Because it just causes the pain.
 It sounds like a jerk on that guy.
 I'm a knife guy.
 I'm a knife guy.
 I'm a girl.
 It's guy.
 We're not talking about you.
 Okay.
 It's a mother Brian.
 This is not about you.
 This is about me.
 Let's talk about you.
 So seriously, when I can look at the situation and see that I've said something and they're
 not going to agree, they're going to battle.
 They're going to do whatever.
 Then I have an opportunity.
 I can jump in.
 I can battle.
 I can try and prove that I'm right, which most people will do.
 Yes, you are out of control.
 Yes, you did say this thing.
 Yes, you did just, you know, make that.
 Yes, you did.
 I can jump in a battle or go, you know, maybe they're not receiving the thing that I'm saying
 because the definition is off.
 And I have found time and time again.
 Now there's two times.
 There's two things here.
 If they're really out of control, I will push it off.
 I'll come back to it in a half hour, an hour for now, right?
 But if I can get them to the same definition quickly, then I will do this.
 So you don't feel out of control.
 How do you feel right now?
 Why don't feel anything?
 Okay.
 Well, do you feel angry?
 Of course I do.
 So you do feel angry.
 Do you feel frustrated?
 Well, yeah, of course I feel frustrated.
 This situation is stupid.
 Okay.
 So you feel frustrated and angry.
 Yeah, yeah, I can see where you're going.
 Okay, okay.
 You know, and then all of a sudden they come around to it, right?
 There are sometimes that that even that doesn't work.
 And I have to just back off completely and let it go.
 So everything about me staying calm, everything about me not jumping and battling, everything.
 I mean, there's things that I've posted on social media that people have done but let's
 take on.
 I don't know that same.
 Anything.
 There's just so they're waiting to bait me into a battle.
 And I'm just, they're surprised that I don't respond.
 Because I don't care.
 I didn't post this thing for your little battle.
 Right?
 But when you look at it, it's not about I must engage.
 I must defend.
 I must, I must, I must.
 If you can recognize what the other person is experiencing.
 What they're going through, what they're struggling with.
 If you can watch like a movie, you can stay detached.
 At least, a motion don't get emotionally handcuffed.
 And then instead decide how you're going to approach this.
 Do you want to just let it go?
 You know, no matter what, that store that I went to will not get my money.
 Even if I gave money to their parent corporation from a different store or something else,
 different story.
 But that store is definitely not getting my, and I'm not sure the parent company would get my
 money either.
 But the point that I'm making is is that that is now over within it's done.
 And the great thing is, I could just get my money back and walk on the door.
 Move on.
 Speaking of moving on.
 Speaking of moving on.
 Let's move on.
 Still on point number one.
 So let's just distill this down a little bit.
 Keep it about the other person.
 Think about the other person.
 What is the other person experiencing?
 What are they going through?
 Helps us not be emotionally handcuffed to the situation.
 Think about how practical that is.
 Even being, you know, if you're at a restaurant, the waiter, waitress, the server comes by
 and they're feeling out of control.
 You have no idea what they're going through.
 You don't know what their life is like.
 Could be a single parent had a crap day.
 And they're, you know, this is an opportunity to think about other people.
 And so that's helpful.
 Moving on to point number two.
 I want to look at keeping it about the facts.
 So we keep it about other people.
 And we keep it factual.
 Keep it logical.
 So if we're able to stay out of that emotional pit that we can fall into and then we're just
 duke in it out, you know, two defensive people are going about something and never win
 neither wins, you know, even if you win, you don't win.
 And so if we're doing that part right.
 And we're going to keep it about the facts.
 This is what I want to get to because there are some things that we legitimately, we have
 to do business in the world.
 We have to interact with other people, even with a spouse and when they're feeling out of control,
 coming back to facts is really helpful.
 So help us understand, when is it okay to defend our position or what we're really after,
 when would we just take our loss like you did?
 And just say, you know what, I'll just take my money back.
 Thank you very much.
 And walk out the door.
 One of the things we talked about a lot here is feelings versus facts.
 A lot of times we were respond with our emotions instead of our instead of the facts around
 the situation, the moment when we start responding when the emotions were losing.
 That's what you were just saying a minute ago, what about, well, I'm not feeling out of
 control.
 Well, and then you walk them around.
 They gain perspective and they realize, oh, I guess I am.
 Because it doesn't register sometimes that that is a fact that is actually happening in the moment.
 It is your feelings.
 Yeah.
 You're right.
 So there's two parts we talked about this all locked in the world power episodes about the
 two distinct areas in the prefrontal cortex of your brain, which apparently might not
 work in right now.
 I can't speak English.
 The desire of a ward center section and the decision making section.
 And I like to call it the better decision making section because when you're not in that desire
 reward section, you can actually make better decisions.
 The moment I am stuck to my feelings and driving my decisions by that desire reward section,
 the battle zone.
 I will fight.
 I will defend.
 I'll do whatever I need to.
 The thing is is that if I get stuck with my feelings, then it makes it really difficult.
 I cannot.
 Even the desire reward section of my entire body.
 How did that right?
 Why?
 I can't all perspective gaining quality perspective has gone.
 Because what is gaining quality perspective?
 I already have my perspective.
 I need your perspective so I can find out what's the best solution I can find out.
 Maybe you're right.
 Maybe I'm right.
 It doesn't matter how we solve this thing.
 I mean and that has to be a goal in mind.
 That's unique.
 Joining is resolving the conflict.
 Winning is resolving that situation.
 Winning is the outcome that is mutually beneficial and not who was right going into it.
 Exactly.
 It's deluding the conflict as fast as we can to get to a good solution.
 If I understand your perspective quickly, I can speak to that.
 I love what Ben Shapiro always points out is that certain things don't have feelings.
 He was honest, I watched this interview once with him, where he was on a show and he called
 somebody who was claiming that they're no longer a man that they're a woman.
 He said, "Sir, in this gal goes, you're offending the pronouns."
 He looks better to go, "Pronounced don't have feelings."
 And he was just such a person could understand that the feelings are the issue.
 The offense is the feeling, not the fact.
 It doesn't matter what the facts are.
 It doesn't matter that biology already set this in place.
 The facts don't matter what matters, feelings.
 When people operate on feelings, then they can't possibly have good perspective.
 Perspective doesn't matter.
 It's all about how I feel and I will battle with my feelings.
 Well, you can't battle somebody with their feelings.
 Because they can't see quality.
 Well, and they're fickle too.
 Those feelings can change.
 They're not on a dime.
 And you go from one feeling to another and they're hard to pin down.
 And so even if you're able to identify them, they can change and hopefully hopefully they can
 change with better perspective.
 And immediately resolve the tension and the situation.
 Because the feelings are going to follow the facts.
 Yeah, going back to victim mentality, one of the things that we experience a lot in a lot
 of people.
 So if you're listening to the show, there's a really good chance you have victim mentality,
 somewhere.
 No, my gong.
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 How dare you?
 One of the interesting things is that as we are helping people on their struggling with victim
 mentality, man, it comes out, no Christian wrong.
 This happened to me, no Christian.
 This situation, my life, these things, all this stuff is happening to me, no Christian
 wrong.
 And as we walk through it, instead of going, no, you're wrong.
 Instead, we'll walk through, okay.
 But so let's say that it has happened to you.
 What do we do about it now?
 You're an adult now.
 Can we make different decisions?
 Yeah, but that's affected me.
 It totally has completely agree with you.
 But what can you do about it now?
 And as we help people to see that, all of a sudden, those who aren't really living life by victim
 mentality can go, ah, crap, man, you're right.
 I keep making decisions based on that.
 And that was 20 years ago.
 Right, absolutely.
 How do we make it healthy now?
 Somebody who's really stuck will battle in battle.
 And we call it fighting in a wet paper bag.
 They will keep, keep, keep, keep, keep.
 No, I'm going to be a victim no matter what.
 What, what paper bag because they could get out?
 Right.
 You keep fighting in your seat.
 You can't get out of the battle.
 You just see all the stuff.
 Yeah, you just keep fighting, fighting, fighting, fighting, fighting.
 And you don't realize if you just stop, you could actually climb out the bags.
 Get out of the bag.
 Right.
 And so when somebody's really, really stuck in victim mentality, it is 1,000% feeling.
 It doesn't matter what you say.
 I refuse to take responsibility.
 I'm a victim.
 I'm a victim.
 Okay.
 There you go.
 You're a victim.
 Okay.
 Now what do we do with your life?
 Well, I don't know.
 You're supposed to help me.
 Well, okay.
 So it's this funny thing of feeling feeling feeling says I'm a victim.
 When you get to the facts and you go, oh, crap, you're right, man.
 That was 20 years ago, and I'm still living as if it's happening to me today.
 Yep.
 So we fixed this.
 We sure can.
 The first thing is we have to recognize how we're receiving that even to this day.
 And we put into it.
 And we've got a lot of stuff we were doing.
 We put into it.
 All right.
 So we probably need to take a break and we'll come back with the third point after this.
 [Music]
 Hi folks.
 Here's the deal.
 Every business has a culture.
 But are you leading yours intentionally or settling for whatever comes in the door?
 If you're finally ready to create the company culture you've always wanted, then you're going to want to sign up for my free digital video series, creating a culture of champions.
 I will personally guide you for 10 days to get clarity on the culture you desire and lead your team to embrace it.
 You can sign up at Chrissacrote.com/culturelesson.
 Again, if you're ready to make a change sign up for my free digital video series creating a culture of champions at Chrissacrote.com/culturelesson.
 [Music]
 All right.
 We are back and we're going to deal with the final point.
 But just to recap, we're talking about keeping it about the other person.
 Understanding what's going on in the situation and what they're going through.
 Keeping it about the facts was our second point.
 Knowing that feelings are fickle, they change on a dime, so bring it back to something more tangible, something more concrete, which is the facts.
 What are we really talking about?
 What are we really dealing with?
 Father, there's a tool.
 When you are stuck in that desire rewards center, those feelings pressure tying up against the roof of your mouth as hard as you can.
 There's also a way of just patting like your legs because when you pat, you're shifting your brain.
 You're having to put your brain into the logic side that decision making side of your brain of the prefrontal cortex.
 So if you find yourself really heavily focused on feelings, press really hard.
 You're tongue to the roof of your mouth that should...
 I'm you right now.
 How's it working?
 Yeah, it's great.
 I don't have any feelings.
 That's awesome.
 I can't feel my tongue.
 (Laughter)
 Alright, so those are the first two points that we cover.
 Coming to this third one is really developing this idea of the facts and resetting the situation back to facts.
 Because even in that conversation, there's a little tug of war that happens and things can kind of go off the trail a bit.
 We want to bring it back.
 How do we reset the situation to the facts that are at hand,
 especially if we're dealing with manipulative and controlling people that are going to come back to what their angle is and their limited perspective,
 because they're not interested about anybody else, but themselves and defending their own position.
 So it's easy to get away from the facts.
 We want to bring it back to where we're trying to go in the conversation.
 How do we do that?
 Yeah, so one of the things is you cannot reset the situation with facts if you're not listening.
 If you're stuck in the feelings mode, if you're stuck on selfishness focused on you, this third piece will not matter.
 It won't happen.
 You can't do it.
 You battle facts and you're both wrong.
 When you are not emotionally handcuffed to the situation, you can listen to what's being said.
 How is it that I'm able to do this all the time?
 Because I'm not grabbing hold of the problem that the other person is experiencing.
 So instead, I will just listen.
 What is inevitably going to happen is the person who struggling like crazy is going to start restating facts or adjusting facts.
 Or I'm not saying that they're intentionally lying although a lot of times they are.
 What's happening is they will hit something because in their mind this is the way it was said or this is the thing that was done or this is the thing.
 And if you're just listening and paying attention, you can go, is that accurate?
 Is that what was said?
 Is that what happened?
 No.
 You can keep that.
 That's not what happened.
 So what will happen a lot of times with us is as we're helping somebody through a process, sometimes they will throw something.
 But will Chris you said this?
 Nope.
 That is not what I said at all.
 Well, what did you say?
 I said this.
 Well, isn't that the same thing?
 No, it is not.
 Let's walk through it.
 And it's all about how they were seeded.
 But what they need immediately is a push back.
 What you're saying is an accurate.
 If it's somebody who's really controlling.
 Now, I will gauge this according to how much the person is struggling.
 There are times I will go, that is a lie.
 You can keep it.
 That's not true.
 That's a strong push back.
 Very strong push back to help that person go, oh crap.
 I'm not going to get it because a lot of times people will see, oh, I see Chris has those highest tendencies.
 I got this.
 Chris has been doing this for a long time.
 It has a lot of healthy boundaries now.
 So there are times that somebody will push and I will push right back and let them know.
 And it depends on the person.
 And it depends on the person.
 And it depends on the person.
 And there is another high S if it's another high C, a high I.
 Then there is no way I'm pushing like that.
 If it's a high D, there is a really good chance.
 It's funny.
 High D's that go through next level of co.
 They're like, my spouse could never do this.
 And it's like, why not?
 And it's like, they could never take it.
 And it's like, oh, we wouldn't lead them the same way we would lead you.
 And they're like, why not?
 Because you're the D.
 So if somebody who's a high S, it's very soft, hey listen.
 Let me push back on the thing that you just said there.
 That's not what I said.
 I said this over here.
 Oh, you're right.
 You're right.
 So it's all dependent upon the personality style and how much they're losing control.
 If it's somebody else who's like, no, I'm going to control you Chris.
 Boom.
 Right back hard.
 And you know you.
 But if you're listening to this, you know which one you're going to receive.
 If you're not somebody who's big and attacking, then you're not going to get
 hard push back or if you're just tacky.
 If you're just tacky, yes.
 Well, okay.
 So in here's another way that that scenario plays out is I've heard you say several times in various
 conversations.
 Okay.
 I get what you're saying.
 I hear what you're saying.
 You might even repeat what they're saying.
 And you rehearse it back to them.
 But you still have an answer to the question.
 Right.
 And so you're bringing it back to the point at hand.
 Because it's so easy that these conversations, especially when the other person's feeling out of control,
 that it goes off the path, goes into feeling in the forest of feelings, off of the path,
 and bringing it back to the question at hand.
 Okay.
 But help me to understand and you rehearse the question.
 You still haven't said the answer to this piece here.
 So you're resetting it back to the facts, which is where you're trying to get.
 Yeah. And again, I need to restate because we're hitting a lot of things on the heavy duty controlling person
 and giving heavy pushback.
 There's a lot of folks listening to this conversation right now where this is just their blood pressure is up right now.
 So let me just be talking about that.
 You're just listening to it though.
 I can never do that.
 Everything is dependent upon the person who's losing control and trying to gain control.
 Everything.
 If it is a high-s, they're probably not doing this at all.
 Unless you push the living crap out of them and then they finally explode.
 You back to middle of the corner, so many times, and then they finally exploded.
 So that personality style is probably not going to be experiencing this.
 So when you look at the person, the situation, it's all dependent on that.
 So if it is somebody who is trying to gain control and they refuse to answer the question, I'll just go,
 did that answer the question?
 And there it's, you know, a guy check, depending upon the person.
 If it's somebody who is not trying to be a jerk, trying to be controlling, but trying to deflect,
 then I'll say, "Hey, help me understand, did that answer the question?
 It's all a gentle, it's a different way of handling."
 So I think as we keep giving these answers, we have to also take into account who you're talking to,
 matter.
 She don't go and bully the SRC with the data into the question.
 You know, it's just, it's a lot of tone here that could shift that conversation.
 If you do that to the S or the I, you've just lost.
 Forget it.
 There's going to be, you know, that's, so instead if you do it in a way that works with the personality style,
 hey, help me understand, did that just answer the question?
 No, it did not.
 Okay.
 What is the actual answer to the question?
 Well, this is the answer.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 Why did you struggle in answering that?
 Well, because I knew this or this, this, this, this, right?
 And then if it's the person who's super controlling, and again, that's the concept of this whole episode has been the controlling person, right?
 They're really the out of control person.
 That's the person that is like the, that answer the question.
 And they hate it because I know how did you know that I, how did you see through what I'm a good soft shoe dancer?
 How did you see lurking mirrors?
 Oh, they see that you can see their tricks.
 Yeah.
 They settle down.
 Yeah.
 The crazy thing is you can actually calm down the controlling person by not engaging emotionally.
 If you just watch the thing and reset the facts.
 Hey, that actually didn't answer the question.
 Hey, you're deflecting.
 Hey, you're, you're, you're, you're, you know, if you do these pieces, then the person goes, well, I'm not getting away better than them.
 And it's not an, yeah, again, this is not a, we're not giving a step by step how to be controlling.
 For example, I'm dealing with controlling people and, and bringing the conversation,
 bringing the confrontation to a healthy resolve.
 That's what we want.
 And so just to start wrapping up here because we are way over time.
 But this has been so good.
 There's so much that we've drilled down into.
 I love it.
 We want to, number one, keep it about the other person.
 Number two, keep coming back to the facts.
 And then the third is keep resetting and keeping it on track, coming back to what the resolve is.
 Yeah.
 Keep coming back to resolve.
 Exactly.
 I think that's so healthy.
 And it keeps, it keeps those healthy boundaries in place.
 And it could could actually preserve or keep the relationship.
 Okay.
 And I think that's beautiful.
 Yeah.
 If it is stuck in feelings, you will never be able to do number three.
 Reset the situation.
 Get back to the resolve.
 The solution.
 Get to solution.
 Get to solution.
 That's the goal.
 Love it.
 All right.
 Good stuff.
 Well, folks, hopefully this has been helpful for you today.
 Again, our goal is to help you to get rid of the conflict.
 Our goal is to help you to have the best life you've lost.
 We've gained the best relationships.
 The best business that you possibly can.
 So take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]