 The lies you may be telling yourself and how they are limiting your leadership that is up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCredo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. Hope you're having a great day wherever you are.
 As you know around here we deal a lot with the idea that we get in our own way.
 In other words that we hold ourselves back more than any other factor.
 Right now the world is not saying that the world is moving in a direction of saying that you are a
 person. We are not going to be able to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything. We are not going to do anything.
 We have to get to a place of seeing in God's word how much he loves us.
 So many people just write a few listening to somebody. You use three scripture verses and talk about all kinds of
 fun stories and preach a good sermon instead of teaching us how to understand what God's word says.
 When you get in there, when you study, when you spend time understanding the culture, the concepts,
 all that stuff, it makes it impossible to not see God's love for you and your worth to him.
 From the beginning of the book to the back of the book, there is a common theme in that is our redemption.
 The common theme is God's love. A common principle is he is going to redeem those who love and see him.
 Some of us have limiting beliefs because of the parents that we have.
 That were not Godly or claimed to be Godly, but their actions didn't align.
 A lot of folks will actually assign to God the same things that they saw in a parent.
 God is not a reflection of humans.
 If you have jacked up parents, we completely understand that. We help you to get healthy in that area, but you can't put that on God.
 So we are going to get to a lot of different limiting beliefs that are affecting your leadership when we come back right after this.
 Hey folks, if you're feeling stuck, anxious, not good enough or held back in life, then you need to go through our next level life.
 That's why we created this two day event process. The power of next level life is that it helps you discover your specific root system.
 While you believe what you do, how you make decisions and why you are in life.
 You learn the things that are holding you back in life and how to overcome them.
 You'll come away having found healing and ready to start living with purpose and authenticity.
 We're ready to stop struggling. If you're ready to find greater peace, then head over to christlucardal.com/nextlevellife.
 The next level life is wedding for you. That's christlucardal.com/nextlevellife today.
 Alright folks, we are focusing on the lies leaders believe.
 The limiting beliefs, the lies that we tell ourselves and joining me on the shows and expert liar to himself.
 I told you to do my chugot myself. That is not for harbolic assumption.
 Bright Alex is doing this all of the show. That was just fun for me.
 We've actually had a great discussion and you had a great question that you wanted to bring to the show.
 This whole month of June we're talking about belief systems.
 We're going to finish out quarter two here with the coaches coming together.
 Sharing stories about belief systems. Something you said just a few minutes ago really stuck.
 I wanted to just flesh it out a little bit.
 Tees out how this works in practical scenarios.
 Because I know for me there are times where I'm completely oblivious to the fact that I'm lying to myself.
 I'm believing something that's not true.
 It's not cognitive. It's not something that I'm conscious of.
 When somebody points it out, just like you said, when somebody points that out, a light goes on.
 What I'm hoping that we do in this episode is we're going to hit some of these lies from different angles.
 Hopefully, if we'd say it in a funny way or a sober, serious way, it's going to connect.
 For me, I need that smack upside the head, not physically or literally.
 But I need that jarring event or moment or word from a friend that helps me recognize,
 "Oh, wow. I'm not telling myself the truth here. I'm doing myself a disservice."
 So let's do this. Let me just spring this on you right here. Do not share anything you don't want to share.
 Never. Never. You feel free. But I'm totally.
 Tell me something that is a consistent, negative thing that you think about yourself.
 But you feel like you can share.
 Do you know something about me or what would you say?
 Well, one of the things that I would say is I believe that inside there is times when you struggle with thinking that you can pull something off to a level of excellence.
 Are you going to come, you're going to end up with the right outcome? Does that make sense when I'm saying?
 So I think there's times where you really do grab the bull by the horn.
 And then I feel like you're like, "I don't know what to do. Maybe I don't know the direction or maybe I don't have the right answer."
 Or maybe it is. And this is your both a high C&D.
 Maybe it is the, "I don't want to sound stupid or look stupid and if I do this,
 I think I'm going to look or sound stupid." So let's just go there.
 Is that a lie you tell yourself? Is that there's time? I'm probably going to sound stupid if I do this.
 Or if I even commit to an answer, then I may look stupid by committing to the answer.
 Yeah, that could definitely be part of it. I don't know that that script with those words necessarily runs through my head.
 But I do feel that stuckness. And I do feel that toggle between the D and the C and I go into processing mode. Why I go into processing mode could very well be?
 Well, I don't want to give a wrong answer. I don't know if it's accurate enough.
 Because what if you're not accurate? No, really. What if you're not?
 Right. Yeah, that terrifies me. So, right. That's not something. So many people just connected with the word "terrifies" you.
 I don't. Right. I get it. I understand it. I do this for a living.
 But there's not a time that I'm terrified by giving a wrong answer even in something simple.
 Let's pull the audience. I'll be there.
 All the way to the hands. I see that hand. Thank you. I see that hand. Okay.
 Because it is a reality of a high sea. Not a mid sea, not even a decently high sea. Well, decently high sea.
 But the higher sea you are, it goes from I really don't want to, as you just said, terrifying.
 It's paralyzing. That's paralyzing. And sometimes I can get myself out of that rut and kind of reset, reorient, come back over.
 And also this monster high D.
 Yeah, and shift gears a little bit and say, okay, quit thinking in those terms,
 thinking these terms over here. And I can make that shift.
 But honestly, that's been rare. And I'm learning to do that. And certainly what we do here has been.
 I think you've come along with. But that is a place that I still frequently get stuck.
 So here's the question that I'm going to ask you and I'm really asking this for everybody who's listening.
 Well, I'm going to bear my soul.
 Everybody you're the giddy pig.
 Man, we thought this was going to be you ask me questions. Look at this.
 So Brian, why do you do this?
 Hey, why don't you lay back?
 Just lay down on the floor.
 I'm more or two more than it's going to hurt me.
 Okay, go ahead.
 What happens if you're wrong?
 No, seriously.
 So the terror that steps in and says, don't answer this.
 Don't commit to this.
 You can't be wrong here.
 You're going to keep me back from guessing exactly.
 Right? Because taking the chance, taking the risk.
 What if you are wrong?
 Because I, yeah, in my head, in that sea mode, I've got to play all my cards right.
 There can't be mistakes. And this, you know, goes back to root system.
 How I grew up, punish, you know, all those kind of thing factors into why that habit that takes
 to, you know, you know, for those, you would all the enough to remember because that takes.
 That takes, yeah, that takes that place or that audio that MP3 filed that runs.
 That's what's in my head.
 So you just squeaked out a little piece there that kind of gave us some insight that being wrong
 when you were younger had a conglance.
 Conglance, yeah.
 What's the conglance now?
 Yeah.
 Right.
 It could be fair of man.
 What people think of me, my worth goes down.
 But that's a self-inflicted consequence, right?
 Yeah, yeah, yeah. Those are those are consequences that I'm experiencing internally.
 It doesn't mean that happens in reality or in the important thing.
 Yeah.
 So much of what we do in next level lie.
 And again, we're talking leadership stuff today.
 But guess what folks, your life.
 When we do strap plan, the owner or the president, whoever's the one leading the business has to come next level
 life first for a reason. We bring all of this stuff to our business.
 So before we're going to rip the business apart, we need to actually take a look at what we're bringing every single day, right?
 I say that to say as we're talking through leadership lies,
 it's not a leadership lie.
 It's a personal lie.
 It's something that we experience personally of struggles in our business.
 There are times you struggle with not wanting to sound stupid, not wanting to be wrong.
 And as we see, still to this day, I'm in your young 29 year old men.
 And I look at, you actually do look at it.
 But they're still to this day, decades later.
 Let me just say that, that there's this fear of a consequence that you knew from decades ago back in your research.
 And so the key is, how do we overcome that?
 And one of the big things is we have to start by recognizing the negativity that's happening, the fear.
 We talk about, especially when it comes to the, in other episodes we talk about the need to argue,
 the need to fight, the need to defend all those things that you have incredible internal warning signs, your heart rate,
 the adrenaline pumping, all of these things that are how you, your mouth getting dry.
 You struggle to speak clearly.
 These are all things that are telling you, your struggling right now, recognize it and do something about it.
 That fear that comes up is the best indicator.
 And since I don't even want to admit that, sometimes it's difficult even to say, "Oh, I guess I am struggling."
 Because again, goes back to that deeper, root level of, well, then what does that imply about me?
 I'm not perfect. I have flaws.
 There may be some kind of consequences or my worth gets devalued.
 And all of this kind of stuff is rolled into that knee jerk reaction.
 Right. And what if you weren't perfect?
 Yeah.
 Would you still love me?
 Well, I would still love you because I'm pretty darn sure you're not even close to perfect.
 And I still love you anyways.
 I guess I can let my guard down.
 There you go.
 But isn't that a funny thing that, especially with that high sea?
 I have told, I have actually watched high seas as I've walked through a process and said, "Hey, you know you're not perfect."
 And you watch the response in their eyes of just like, they can't receive that what I just said is truth.
 No, no, no. I must be. My family told me that I am.
 Everything that I've had. Everybody tells me. I have to be perfect because that's what my worth is in is being perfect.
 Oh my gosh, if we were perfect, we would never screw anything up.
 We wouldn't have any problems. We wouldn't need a savior. We wouldn't, you know, numbness stuff.
 So the key is to recognize from the root system that there is a response that's happening because of a consequence or consequences that you experienced for being wrong in the past.
 The key is to get over man's opinion. That fear of what is man gonna think.
 Because the truth is, you're not worried about you looking stupid to you.
 You're worried about you looking stupid to other people.
 So the fear is actually judgment of man.
 Yeah.
 It's not, man. And this is a funny part because people will really struggle with this, or they'll say, "Well, no, I'm judging myself. Oh stop.
 Even if you are judging yourself, you're not afraid of you judging you.
 Because you're judging you in the moment when you say to yourself, "Don't be stupid and answer this."
 So you're gonna be stupid if you screw this up.
 There's already judgment there.
 So by answering it, you can't re-judge you in the process, right?
 So people want to say, "No, it's all about no. It's not. It's about other people. It's about that fear of man's judgment."
 The crazy thing is, is what happens if you're wrong? Have you been wrong here?
 Why are you setting me up like that? You know I don't want to answer.
 I'm sure I have a press.
 I can't think of a single time.
 I think comes to the mind.
 But surely, of course you've been wrong here.
 It doesn't have times every hour.
 And what's happened?
 Anybody who has lost your head off, anybody who judge the crap out of you, anybody tell you that they don't like you anymore?
 I've been met with minimal judgment.
 Beautiful.
 Judges are, that's what I like to say.
 No, zero.
 Yeah.
 So here's what we have to recognize is that we are going through life, continuing to have the same force of habit response.
 You know, as what Robert Emileum was saying is that as a result of our beliefs, we define ourselves as worthy or worthless.
 So if you believe that you are worthless, if you answer incorrectly, then you're not going to answer.
 If you believe you are worthless, if you commit to an answer, even though you don't have all the information, then you're already worthless.
 It doesn't matter. You're already worthless, right?
 Yeah.
 Because you can't be worth the by not answering.
 Because if you don't have the answer, you don't have the answer. It doesn't matter.
 Right? It doesn't make you worth the by not answering.
 But what we do is we believe that if we do this thing, then our worth tanks.
 We wrongly associate that performance, let's say, with that sense of worth.
 And it's so tough.
 I mean, I love that we're talking about this because, you know, we've had this discussion before, where, you know, I've been out of this business for a while.
 And coming back in, I had to get accustomed again to some of the terminology that we have here.
 Right.
 And when we talk to high seas about, are you feeling out of control?
 We've had that discussion, where sometimes that doesn't compute to us.
 Right.
 That's a definition.
 And so we had to change some of the, well, are you feeling X, Y, and Z? Well, yeah.
 Well, then that's what we mean.
 First, you're struggling, you know,
 and I think even when we talk about lies that leaders believe, I, I, I love that we're fleshing this out before we get into these to say, this could be a, you know, a surface level response,
 some kind of habitual thought process and reaction to things that are, are wrong associations.
 We're associating like that performance with that sense of worth.
 That's not a current situation. It's not to say, like you said, there may have been a time in your life where there was a real consequence that came with being wrong.
 Right.
 But we carry that over for the rest of our lives because it becomes that force of habit.
 The fear I don't want to ever end up like I did back then.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 So much baggage, I'm very inferior.
 Right.
 And every single, every person listening to this is, experiences, same with me.
 The guy who teaches this for living the guys, the people here, you know, all of our coaches that teach this stuff for living.
 We all have carried the same stuff.
 The difference is getting the tools to be able to battle it as fast as you possibly can and be able to recognize,
 I'm struggling. And for me, one of the biggest things we talked about on the front part of the episode is that taking responsibility.
 I'm recognizing that I'm struggling, that I am making bad decisions that I'm holding myself back.
 It's funny to me, I think I always underthink God.
 I never think big enough for the plans that he has.
 I always try to take control, and I shouldn't say, always, for a long time I've done this.
 I do geez considerably better now.
 But there's times in my past that I could see that God's telling me to do something or moving me in a direction on something.
 And it's taking a big step or a big risk or or.
 And so I think I'm doing a huge job, and I'm going in at something that if God's going to do the thing that he's saying he's going to do, I'm now limiting him by my choices.
 Does that make sense?
 Yeah, absolutely.
 I remember when we started looking for buildings, you know, I was looking at teeny tiny offices that I would actually purchase.
 I obviously don't do that.
 I would that I would purchase something.
 And just think, wow, this is all I need and praise God, Tony Chack, a buddy of mine, went with me one day and he goes, Chris, this just isn't enough.
 And it was like, oh, wow, I am limiting myself believing that my start is going to be, you know, starting back at zero, which come to find out I didn't.
 But my start is going to be small, slow and God's pointing me in a direction in my limiting belief that because I'm in my mind, I was going back to zero, did not realize I had so many people that were following me for such a long time.
 That I was going to limit God because my belief was, well, it's just not going to happen that well, that fast, that whatever, right?
 So it's important for us to recognize after having done that a handful of times in my life and having somebody sit there and say, hey, you know you're holding this back and going, oh my gosh, actually I'm holding it, not because of a fear of a consequence, not because of a, well actually I guess I could say,
 if you have a consequence of, I don't want to go spend a whole ton of money on something that I'm not going to need, right?
 Even in that situation, I was lacking in abundance mindset.
 Where so many places I have an abundance mindset.
 But looking at that going, well, it's probably not going to go the way you think it is, right? That was a limiting belief.
 Now I'm constantly going, shoot, I think this is too small. You know, we're looking at building a new building.
 I mean, we're blowing it up and making it as big as we can and you know that we can actually, again, afford in the process and I'm still wondering, is this, is it too small?
 Is it not enough? Am I limiting myself? So I've actually stretched it beyond what I thought by 50% believe it or not, I've grown it by 50% more than I thought and we'll see, we'll see what God does.
 But that limiting belief has held me back so much that now that I recognize it.
 When I recognize, I'm holding me back, then I can put the tools in place and go stop, man, you're doing it again. Why are you doing this? What is your fear? What's your struggle? Why are you thinking this way?
 How fast do we get out of this? What are the facts? Not the feelings.
 We talk a lot about feelings versus facts here. What are the facts? This is what's happened. Here's what your growth has been.
 This, this, this, this, this, this, here's what God keeps doing in your life. All right, make a good decision based on that. So that makes sense?
 Yeah, absolutely. And we've touched on that a couple times and I love that we're, we're diving a little bit deeper here with that, but even in a previous episode on confrontation conflict control.
 We've, and we did another one called Disciplined Inner Dialogue. All of this is kind of, I don't know, circling around how do we get unstuck?
 All right. And now we're going to dive into some particular beliefs that hold leaders back.
 And I'm so excited because I think the way we're going to approach this today a little, from a less field.
 A little time and cheekier. But hopefully it will connect in a deeper way and, and, you know, there's some people out there that are going to feel some freedom today.
 Absolutely. All right. So we are going to do that when we come back right after this.
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here. I'm device president of leadership development on Chris esteem and I oversee our next level mastermind business coaching program.
 Most business owners and leaders lack a clear path to succeed in business. The question whether they're making the right decisions, if they're focusing on the right things to really grow their business.
 If this is you, you need a coach in your life. Coach is helping make better decisions, navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively, and grow your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in growth revenue and an average of 138% increase in net profit and regained hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3.5 years simply because of the results they get.
 So if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting, then visit ChrisCarto.com/mastermind.
 Okay, we're talking about the lies that leaders believe Brian taking away.
 Well, okay, so, you know, as we're walking through some of this, I'm reminded of one of my business leader heroes, not not Peter Drucker.
 He's like number two. Number one on that list is Michael Scott.
 Oh, absolutely. Bestselling author of the hit business book, 1 billion sold more than the Bible entitled, "Somehow I Manage."
 And he has a great quote.
 Wait, is there literally on the show did he sell a book?
 Oh, yeah.
 Are you serious?
 No, no, no, he, he eludes to a book that he entitles in his mind somehow I manage.
 And he manages to get the first line out which is 1 billion sold more than the Bible.
 And I think he says something to the effect of, well, you know, that's no surprise there.
 Of course, of course.
 And what we're referring to for those of you, if you have not ever watched the show, this is the TV series The Off.
 The Office.
 Yeah, the American version.
 So success guru Michael Scott from the Office TV series, he says this.
 Would I rather be feared or loved?
 Easy, both.
 I want people to be afraid of how much they love me.
 That is so fantastic.
 Amazingly arrogant.
 That's like a love and wow.
 Okay, so what are we, what, what, what, it's, or we trying to scratch with this one.
 What are we digging down to get to, you know, what this made me think of was how even even myself, not in a leadership role here.
 But just as an individual, there are times that I feel valued, I feel worth when people like and appreciate me.
 And I think Michael Scott is an excellent example of that all throughout all nine seasons.
 You can see that he rides that when, I mean, it's evident that there are some major insecurities, identity issues, all of that goes back to his childhood, which brilliant how they pull that out.
 But what I rather be feared or loved, both.
 I want people to be afraid of how much they love me.
 He needs that affirmation from people.
 So take it back Chris. How does this flesh out on a practical level?
 Well, so again, if we're looking at the amazing comedy of Steve Crow, now I've, I've only watched like a couple of episodes of the office.
 I, for some, you know, I just didn't get into it when it was there, but the things that I've seen have just blown me away, funny.
 Just hilarious. And Steve Crow is insane with his acting.
 So let's take a look at the character that he put together.
 You know, the picture that you have for us is him holding up his cup that says world's best boss and his eyebrows of like, right?
 Of course. Of course.
 Is it evidently he bought himself that mark?
 Right.
 So if we are to analyze it and pull it apart, what are we seeing?
 Michael Scott is struggling heavily with pride.
 What is pride? People confuse this a lot.
 Pride is I'm not good enough to myself.
 And I don't think I'm good enough to other people.
 So I must puff myself up to make myself as good as I think I either am or as good as I think I should.
 I've been there a few times.
 Yeah, everybody has been there, right?
 Obviously Steve Crow's goal was to make this more than you see pretty much anywhere, right?
 But what are we seeing?
 The thing that we're bringing up in this lie that leaders believe is that I'm valued when people like me.
 I'm valued when people appreciate me.
 You're value. So we have to take a hard look at what is your value and what is your worth.
 Your value to a business is different than your worth as a human being and people screw this up all the time.
 People look at their value to a business and think to themselves that my worth as a human being is what I'm doing in this business.
 You know, so as Michael says, I want them to be afraid of how much they love me.
 Obviously as a boss, but really what are you saying as a human being?
 As long as I look at my worth, my value, and I'd base it on how people appreciate me, then I will never ever, ever be good enough. Why?
 Because not every single person or almost anybody is spending their time trying to reaffirm my worth and die.
 People are not spending their time coming along saying how much they appreciate me.
 But when they do and I'm pulling my worth from that, all of a sudden I have an increase in my worth.
 Oh look, this person appreciates me. This person likes me.
 This person is, you know, making me feel really good about myself.
 All of these things that they're telling themselves is total bunk. Why?
 It's okay if somebody appreciates you, but they appreciate you for the thing that happened.
 Or they appreciate you for the thing that you said or they appreciate you because you're being generous.
 So whatever it is, right?
 But that doesn't mean that they're sitting around thinking you're so worthy because of what you've done.
 But it can be such a drug.
 It is. When I feel that from another human being and it depends on my state of mind where I'm at mood,
 or all that kind of stuff, energy level, it can be such a drug and you can see how this character in that series is fed by that drug.
 And when he feels that he's on top of the world or he's on the bottom of the barrel if he doesn't really.
 Yeah, so what does that mean for us?
 We have to recognize that this is a lie.
 My worth to this business is what I produce.
 It is not the same as my worth as a child of God.
 It just isn't, right?
 Being a business owner is one of the things that's an aspect of me.
 Right? There's so many other aspects that I have.
 So if I believe this lie, then how am I going to live my life or at least my life at work?
 What is that going to look like?
 I'm going to spend all of my time trying to get people to like me.
 I'm going to spend all of my time trying to do something that causes somebody to appreciate me.
 I'm going to spend my time setting things up to get people to respond to me.
 Instead of focusing on the thing that I get paid for or me as a business owner if I'm a business owner doing this,
 focusing on the things that make my team members get paid.
 Right? That's my job as to make sure you guys get paid, right?
 So if I believe that lie, then it will change my focus on everything.
 And I can become emotionally handcuffed to that lie and believing that, right?
 That belief. And when that happens, I hold every bit of me back.
 I won't take risks. I won't put my head on the chopping block.
 I won't go out of my way to do things where I might fail.
 I'm going to avoid failure at all costs.
 Everything is going to be focused on how do I get people to like me.
 That is this lie that so many people believe that so many leaders believe.
 I'm appreciated or valued when. You got to get the if, you know, that if then if I do this, then people will like me, right?
 You got to get that out of your mind because that is a lie.
 So tough to recognize too. And we need an exaggerated version of this character like this.
 Just to hit this from a few different angles, let me at least read one of these.
 I equate my position in the company with my value as a person.
 That's hard to see sometimes. Here's another.
 When my colleagues affirm me, then I feel loved,
 Valued or accepted. Wow. I'm feeling that one.
 When my worth, ebs and flows, I can see that it's connected with how others see me or how they treat me.
 And you know, I love that, you know, for you and Joel, when you're leading people through next level of life, you say this all the time,
 you've got to get to a point to be able to lead people well. You got to get to a point that you take you out of the equation,
 so that you can focus on that other person.
 And this is going to hold this lie is going to hold leaders back from being able to do that.
 Yeah, I can't be a great leader.
 If I'm still somewhat focused on myself, but I can't be a great leader if I am.
 I think I coca is a fantastic example of this, you know, Jim Collins that is study on Christ,
 they're back in the day.
 And I coca had done so much for it.
 This is not to say that I coca wasn't a great businessman,
 but everything depended on him. So when he left the company tanked,
 they asked him back, he did his own huge fanfare.
 Look at me, they need me again, here I come, and the company did well,
 and then, you know, with him leaving again, it just,
 the company depended upon him.
 That's not great leadership.
 That's not even really a whole heck of a lot of leadership, right?
 It's not built to last.
 It's not built to last. That is how the mighty fall though.
 Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
 You're stuck with yourself the way you are as a leader.
 You're stuck with people around you that aren't growing in your stagnant.
 Yeah, it has been the most difficult hire for me to hire,
 because it's such a difficult and painful process to get rid of you, right?
 We have levels coming into this business, right?
 At every level you come into this business,
 there's going to be some level of us trying to get you to remove yourself
 by understanding your worth is not in those areas, right?
 And the more if you ratchet up to a leader, it gets heavier by far the next level of life.
 Facilitated a role is the toughest because people are putting their lives into our hands by saying,
 "Help me, I'm ready for help, I'm ready for change, and again,
 some folks have absolutely nothing bad going on, never experienced anything really bad.
 And we have that all the way down to really horrible stuff, right?
 Our job has to be, how do I help this person become better?
 No matter what it is, if it's just to make better decisions in life,
 or if it's to overcome difficult situations, or if it's to overcome really horrid stuff in their lives.
 You have to get rid of self.
 So hey, listen, anybody out there who believes that you can do that,
 it's not just in the sense of what you're doing, but you're doing that.
 And you're doing that.
 And you're doing that.
 And you're doing that.
 And you're doing that.
 And you're doing that.
 And you're doing that.
 And you're doing that.
 And you're doing that.
 And you're doing that.
 And you're doing that.
 And you're doing that.
 And you're doing that.
 They start making stronger decisions.
 And it's great because you can help them get there.
 But sometimes it takes a little bit of push, right?
 If they're high D, it takes a big push.
 So it takes a 2x4.
 So it's usually hit behind the door.
 Which is obviously not the same with the high S or a high C, right?
 Or high I.
 It's all about how you help the person get to success.
 If it's about me, then I don't care.
 I only care about, are they going to leave and like me?
 And that's just not an option for what we do.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 That's great.
 Should we go to number two?
 I think so.
 All right.
 [laughs]
 This is a little bit of a nerd side here where I've been a bit of a trekking in the past.
 And this scene came to mind for this second line here where just to set this up.
 This is the 2009 Star Trek movie, JJ Abrams, the fantastic job here.
 And you've got this great chemistry between James T. Kirk, Chris Pines, playing the character.
 And then Zach Riequinto is a spock.
 What's great about spock is that as half Vulcan, half human, he tries to...
 There's so many of us are.
 Just like that.
 He tries to always ease a high C.
 He tries to be on that logic side, detail side, process, process.
 Mastering a radical monster, theoretical.
 But there's this tug of war in this tension in this first movie where James Kirk's...
 He's pushing spock to feel out of control.
 And he knows that human side is there.
 And so he's been just ripping him, you know, this side and that.
 Well, finally there's a moment where you see that even Vulcan's half Vulcan's can feel out of control.
 And so when he's asked by his girlfriend, what he needed after learning that his planet has been destroyed.
 Vulcan has been destroyed.
 Spock says this.
 Did he want to continue for 4-5 years?
 And it's interesting. I mean, that just hit me because, I mean, how many times have we been in some kind of circumstances?
 I mean, think back leaders to last year when COVID hit, how did you feel?
 There were circumstances that were going off the rails around you.
 What did you feel like you needed?
 You know, the tendency is to white knuckle things get a more firm grip.
 Have everything else, everyone else do an act and say and behave in a way that keeps the boat from rocking any further.
 I know at least for me that's how I feel.
 Don't have anybody else speak into this or any other circumstances go awry.
 I need control. I need to feel that.
 And so what are we scratching here? What's the itch that we're trying to scratch?
 Here it is. I need my team to act or behave well in order to feel at ease.
 And so I wonder, does that connect with leaders out there?
 Are there times when things go off the rails or you don't know how you're going to fix a situation?
 And you need everybody to calm down, do their job and do it perfectly or we start barking at them and trying to manipulate micromanage and super control the situation.
 This is a leadership killer because at the very base of this is the concept that I am in control of my team.
 I'm in control of what's happening. I'm in control of the circumstances.
 It's a beautiful illusion.
 It is an incredible illusion, right?
 And the reason why it's a leadership killer is because you become the absolute stopping point for your team.
 You won't allow your team to get out of control. You won't allow your team to take risks.
 You won't allow your team to grow beyond you.
 You won't hire people who cause you to feel out of control.
 You will make all of your decisions based on whether or not you feel in control.
 What a terrible way to lead people.
 And then as you shared, the moment things start to get out of control. Now my planet has never blown up obviously because I'm still here.
 I don't understand the stress that Spock felt in the moment, but it's so amazing how it is a great example of that person of just going if everybody will just do the thing that they need to do everything can be okay.
 It is a father with little kids. Why is the house semesey? Why is there room not picked up? Why are they crying or acting this way or that?
 If they would just act, then I could feel more at peace or more calm or in control.
 And who is that about?
 Oh, it's about me.
 So when you are a leader, and you're feeling this way, what you're saying is, I must be in control for everything to be in control.
 Do you see how that kills leadership?
 Yeah. Because it has nothing to do with leading.
 It has to do with now forcing things back into control. It has to do with trying to drive things back into control.
 If it's about leadership, then we have opportunities.
 The house is a mess with the kids. Now, every parent goes through this. Usually, you know, there's a fantastic change on the backside of the next level.
 But coming in, everybody experiences the same thing. The house is a wreck.
 The kids are now in trouble. Why are the kids in trouble? Because I feel out of control.
 Why do I feel out of control? Because the situation is out of control.
 It's clothes and toys on a floor. Oh, Chris, you don't understand.
 It's like this 47 times a day.
 Aha.
 And why is it?
 Because my kids are just out of control.
 Hello victim.
 Aha. And why are your kids?
 Your children adult parent who I'm speaking to.
 Why are your kids out of control? They're just out of control. Aha.
 They came out of the womb.
 Out of control.
 They're own way of doing stuff. There's nothing they've ever been taught or trained.
 Yep. They just do this all stuff on their own.
 Right. So what's the monster?
 What's the big key that we have to understand?
 What is our position of authority? Right.
 If I'm a parent and my kids are little monsters, it's because of a loud it.
 It's because I haven't been taught. I haven't been given the tools. I haven't gotten the tools.
 Let me say it that way.
 Do you actually solve this problem?
 Because there's much easier ways to solve the kids.
 Leaving everything out. Right.
 There's all kinds of ways you can solve this out of control situation.
 But what do we do?
 We have to do the same things that our parents taught us or we do the pendulum swing.
 We go to the opposite side and we do the same thing from a different direction.
 Oh, I'm not going to be as strict with my kids because my parents were strict.
 And now you have these incredibly enabled kids that you can't control.
 Hey, fantastic. Well done. Great job.
 When you're a leader and things get out of control, you have the opportunity to lead.
 Just like the parent has the opportunity to either parent or become a victim,
 you as a leader have the opportunity to lead.
 Yes, things are out of control. What are you going to do about it?
 And so many times we help people.
 We'll be coaching in situations and somebody says, man, this person was doing this.
 And it was just like, no, no, no, no, you need to do this over here.
 And then we'll push back and go actually what you need to do.
 Don't solve the problem for them.
 Don't give them the solution. What do you mean? Don't we want the solution?
 No, we want the solution.
 But go to the the surface level response that they're struggling with.
 Why are they doing the thing that they're doing? Why are they not solving the thing that they should be solving?
 Hit that piece and ask them, hey, why is this a struggle?
 Why is this out of control? Hey, why is this like this?
 Hey kids, how come there's toys all over the house?
 I don't know. Okay. Well, until you can come up with an answer.
 Let's just take those toys away.
 You know, come up with a re-help them to see that they're choosing to do something that is out of control.
 Lead.
 And then teach them how to not be out of control.
 But if you're struggling with that control issue, there's no way you can do it. Why?
 Because you're going to have to go through and force everything to get back into your nice little, you know, picture frame.
 Yep.
 Match the picture that you painted and by doing so you're cutting off your leadership.
 You are probably alienating people or showing people that you don't really care or or or just so you can get in control.
 So self focused.
 Yep.
 Let me slice it and dice it just like we did before a couple different ways.
 See if you can hear one of these that connect to where you are.
 I feel out of control when things or people around me are chaotic.
 My team's performance is a direct reflection of my own abilities.
 And the last one, when performance is lacking or people fail, then I get nervous or I get angry.
 Wow.
 Yeah.
 We just a great thing to point out.
 We just have the next level of leadership live events at the end of April.
 And as we do every single event, we have a debrief afterwards.
 We talk about all the great things.
 We pat people on the back.
 You know, we promote what's happened.
 And then we shift gears.
 And then we go into, okay.
 What went wrong?
 How do we fix it?
 How do we make sure it doesn't happen again?
 Talk through this.
 And one of the big keys is to say we mentioned, you know, we have newer people on the team, or we've had they've not seen this before.
 Hey, this isn't a time to throw people into the bus.
 This isn't a time to be defensive.
 This is a time for us to go.
 This happened.
 How do we fix it?
 Why did it happen?
 What happened?
 How did it happen?
 What did it happen?
 How do we fix it?
 How do we make sure it never happens again?
 Four hours of this process.
 Right?
 We actually set up a four hour block.
 We actually went, I think we went four and a half hours on this one.
 Because we had some newer folks.
 New people always, there's more explaining going on in that process or teaching in that process.
 So we always block a four hour block of time after the next level leadership live event to go through all of this stuff.
 Good stuff and bad stuff, right?
 It's both even something so simple as,
 I don't know, where we put the post at notes on the table.
 Right?
 If something is off, we go after fixing it.
 How do we fix that?
 How do we catch?
 If somebody struggled with something,
 how do we fix whatever it is?
 When you need to be in control,
 that is a blood bath of them.
 Now we've never had that.
 But I'm saying if somebody was having to be in control,
 either the meeting wouldn't happen or it'd be a blood bath.
 And I think just to interject, the important thing here that I'm seeing right now just in this episode is trying to associate control with self-focused is super helpful to shine a light on it.
 Yeah, totally.
 So when you can be in a place where you don't worry about that,
 then you let risk happen.
 You let people take risks.
 You allow failure to happen.
 You know, I say all the time, failure is the best teacher for the person who's willing to learn from it. Right?
 We don't have a problem failing around here.
 We just don't want to keep, we don't want to have fail failures and we don't want to keep repeating the same failure.
 We want to get things moving and take chances because when we do that, we can affect people.
 We can worship God in that process as well.
 Alright, we're going to get to the final one right after this.
 Hey folks, a couple of years ago I was visiting with a client and the CEO said to me, "Chris, we're not going to hit our goal."
 I asked him what he meant and he said, "We're going to miss our three year revenue goal coming out of strat plan by a few months."
 I didn't realize it at first that he was having a little fun with me by saying they were about to triple their company in less than three years.
 How freaking awesome is that. Folks, these are the kinds of results that businesses get by coming through our four day strat plan events.
 On average, we find 2.1 million dollars worth of revenue in the next 12 months that the company was not planning on.
 The event is for all size businesses. If you're small, medium or large, it works for every single business because it's not industry specific.
 It's about gaining all the information about all the things inside of your business that are holding you back from success
 and then giving you a plan and a process on how to walk that out and be successful in your business.
 By discovering the things that are holding you back, it helps you get to all of those goals that you've been planning on for a long time.
 So if you're ready to get the perspective you need to solve what's holding you and your business back, so you can grow faster than you need strat plan.
 To learn more, go to Chrissacordo.com/stratplan.
 That's Chrissacordo.com/stratplan.
 Alright, we are back and we're hitting the last lie that leaders believe not the last lie.
 The last one is the come up with.
 This is it, this only three lies, that's it.
 Only three that we'll deal with today.
 So to pivot a little bit on the first lie which was based on an office character, we're going to, some of the same writers,
 spoken to Parks and Rec and Leslie, if you know her character from this show is in some ways,
 but...
 For name is Nope.
 Leslie, nope.
 That's all.
 In some ways is an alter ego for the Michael Scott.
 She has more humility and knows more about herself, which makes this statement so much funnier.
 She says,
 "I am big enough to admit that I am often inspired by myself."
 Nope, I'm proud of that.
 Nope.
 Nope.
 I love that.
 And so what are we trying to, what's the itch that we're trying to scratch here?
 I have to have all the right answers.
 I have to know what to do.
 And again, you know, in all of these, the common recurring theme, the thread throughout,
 is that ego, that self-focus, and then it manifests in performance and perfection and all these other things.
 And we're learning here to identify lies based on that self-focus.
 And right here we have it.
 I love her, her modesty and humility at the same time as she's got monster pride.
 I'm big enough to admit that I'm often inspired by myself.
 So where do we as leaders?
 I feel like we have to have all of the right answers.
 I have to know what to do.
 It's all writing on my shoulders and how is that holding me back?
 Yeah, this is again, another big thing that impacts leaders.
 If I have to have all the right answers, I don't need you.
 I don't need the rest of the team.
 What I need is robots just to do the things that, you know, I want done.
 For me, I am big on hiring people who are smarter than you in the role that they're going to be pulling off.
 Right?
 If I'm smarter than the person in the role about the role than I did in higher big enough.
 Right?
 Now obviously there are some exceptions to the role if it's a simple admin job because there's tons of those out there.
 But like me, you know, there was at one point back in the day years ago, we had to fulfill paper tickets to events.
 That was a job that we just needed somebody to sit down and fulfill the paper tickets, but I can tell you this.
 It's not a job that I can do.
 I can do anything.
 I can sit down and do paper tickets and envelopes.
 But after about a couple of hours, I would be like, I'm so done with this.
 I need something. I need something else where there are folks 99 sees that are like, no, I love the consistency.
 I love being able to sit down. I will do tickets all day long and we found one and hired.
 Well actually, two over time that just loved being able to sit down and do that because the consistency of the job.
 So what is important here?
 There are sometimes it's not important to hire smarter than you. You can just hire somebody to do the actual task.
 But if I am focused on having all the right answers, I'm definitely not going to hire somebody who's going to cause me to feel again out of control.
 Who's going to cause me to, you know, and again I'm using the term "caz me" to feel, nobody can do that.
 I'm going to keep things in control so people have to come to me.
 I'm going to keep things in a way that people have to get answers from me.
 That is now keeping you from duplicating yourself, which is keeping you from growing, which is keeping team members from growing.
 By doing that, you have a tendency to create a situation where team members believe they can't get the answers.
 They can't come up with the answers or they're afraid to even try because you're going to shoot down everything because you've got all the right answers.
 By doing that, it forces everybody to have to come to you as the leader to get the information.
 You know, you've experienced the frustration of how sometimes I just will not answer.
 I'm going to try and guide you to the answer.
 Many of the people have made it.
 Many of the team members here.
 It's so funny. What are the stories we share is we were out at lunch one day and Heather brought something up.
 Joel looks at her and goes, "You know what he's going to ask next. Just answer the question. What do you think you should do about this?"
 Right?
 Because if I answer everything, how do I possibly make you grow?
 We had a great, I'll use the story.
 Another love to add to her and you're not expecting.
 There was a situation where you came to me like, "Hey, this event that we put together, it did not go very well.
 I want you to know how you want this thing to look."
 And I started asking you questions.
 You were immediately frustrated.
 But I want to know what you think.
 What would you do here?
 And what would that look like here?
 By the time we got done, we had this event laid out.
 I go, "What do you think? You go, "Well, it's great.
 But I still don't know what you think."
 But I go, "Yeah, you do."
 How is that?
 Because I got to you through the questions.
 I had the answers and answered and didn't go the direction that I think it should.
 I just got it.
 You do another answer.
 It'll never be just that I go.
 I have to process through that.
 But what's the key?
 If I don't do my job in leading you to be better, what's the point?
 You know, you will just come to me.
 All the team members will just come to me and go, "What's the answer?"
 Right. I love that you push on us in a good way, and a healthy way all the time.
 In fact, we were just having a meeting about an event and processing through that.
 I remember that I had, you know, valiantly being the hero jumped up and solved the problem.
 But it didn't occur to me at the time to get myself out of that problem, resolve the problem,
 so that I could go on to do something else.
 And so I stayed in a role at that event, doing something over and over,
 instead of zooming out a little bit, looking at the big picture and say, "Okay,
 but how do we solve this problem so that we don't experience this in another hour or two?"
 And then I have to jump back in and rescue again.
 And I love that there is that culture here where we can expand and we can grow and we can think outside of just that role.
 And that is what great leaders do.
 They help lead their people to that next level.
 That's why we have next level and just about everything we do here.
 That's what really what we're doing.
 We're raising up leaders, we're growing people.
 And we have to have this mindset as leaders, even as parents, that that is part of our everyday business.
 We take our focus off of ourselves, put it on other people and say, "How do we get them to the next level?"
 And I think the thing that leaders need to hear is, you are in situations where you have the opportunity to fix things.
 You didn't have to go ask a question, you saw that something needed to be solved and you solved it.
 And the push back, I wouldn't even say push back, the additional teaching is, "Hey, that's great."
 And the future solved the root cause, so you don't have to keep solving the thing,
 which is not the brine you did that wrong.
 Well, thanks for solving that, but you could have done better.
 It is the man, that's great, that's fantastic.
 Here's something you can do in the future, fix the roots, you don't have to keep coming back.
 That's leading, where the person who has to have all the right answers,
 "Well, I wouldn't have done that way."
 I would have done this.
 I would have just done, fix this piece over here.
 That struggle that people have, that is that place of, "I have to..."
 You just solved something.
 You just did something that caused other people to not have to fix it.
 Great job.
 That's fantastic.
 You don't have to, but it's the same time I can see now in retrospect,
 where I was still limiting my ability to serve.
 Yes, but the key is, is that you're in an environment that you feel free to go solve a problem.
 You don't have to go get an answer, you don't have to, you felt free.
 Hey, there's a problem, go solve it.
 Could it have had a better, you know, a solution I got you to not have to do it over and over again?
 Sure.
 And it only makes sense now looking back.
 But that's not even the point.
 The point is, you're not in a place where you go, "Well, I have to go find out how this, you know, so and so once this done."
 Or, one of the things I absolutely hate, I despise, is when people look at the problem and go,
 "Let me go get somebody else to do this."
 Oh, God, you know, for multiple reasons, one, you're not serving.
 You're not solving the problem, you're not serving the people, you're not taking care of things.
 But number two, you are absolutely holding yourself back from going, "Can I solve this? Can I figure this out?"
 Take the risk? What if you solve it the wrong way?
 As long as nobody dies, I think we're doing all right, right?
 But take the risk to expand you to be a better version of yourself, try to solve it, try to think through it, right?
 And so that's one of the things that we'd be down all the time is, we don't want that focus on, I have all the right answers.
 There's plenty of times I've got what I believe is the right answer, and I still will not answer it for team members.
 I mean, it's actually probably the bulk of the time, right?
 Because if I do that, I'm not growing the team or I'm not allowing the team member in my culture to actually become better.
 The other piece is, as a leader, if I am forcing people to come to me for the answers, then I am actually paying myself way too much money, right?
 Because I'm doing the work that I'm paying somebody else to do.
 Leaders, your worth is not in having the answer.
 Your worth is not in being the one who knows everything.
 Your worth to the business, not as a human being, to the business is to duplicate yourself, is to make people great.
 That's your worth.
 If you force everybody to come to you, then the company is paying you too much money even if you're the business owner.
 So, all right, let's chop it up again and see if we can hit this on a different level that makes sense to different people.
 My performance, or we can say that perfectionism, really, we're dived tailing back into where we began this episode today, talking about, well, what's the consequence?
 If people see that there is nobody fails in a vacuum, right?
 There's always going to be people around.
 So, how do we take ourselves out of that? My performance is the real proof of my life's worth or value.
 Big lie. If I show people my ignorance, they will lose respect for me.
 And that's one thing we have to learn.
 Ignorance is not a bad word. Something you don't know yet and being able to admit that is humility.
 And the last one, I'm the only one who can do this.
 And it all depends on me that is a limiting belief.
 Yeah. So, here's the deal. As we wrap all this up and thank you for joining me again on another fantastic episode.
 As we wrap this up, there's things that we have to understand.
 If your identity is tied to your role, then you're going to sacrifice people for profits. Why?
 Because your identity is going to be in the success of the role itself.
 What is a measurement of that success? How much profit we're making?
 If your identity is there, right?
 If your worth and value is tied to your role, you won't pour into others.
 Why? You're going to keep control of how much you do pour into others because the last thing you can do is set yourself up to have your worth.
 And you can't take it. So you will be very cautious on how you pour into others.
 If your success is a leader, it's tied to your role, then you're just not leading well.
 How do we know that? But Chris, it's all about the success as a leader.
 It means that you are going to be very cautious and not take risks as a leader to allow yourself to fail until you're team members to fail.
 Any of that instead you're going to do everything you can to make that you look good as a leader by people doing the right things or not teaching them, not training them.
 So if any of these things are tied to your role, then unfortunately you're not doing your job.
 If you can identify with any of the lies that we've talked about today, then you're already on your way to getting unstuck in these situations.
 Self awareness is the first step towards health and self improvement.
 So start there. Be aware of the lies that we talked about and how they may be a part of your life, your leadership.
 And then start putting the tools in place to get those fixed.
 Don't allow yourself to limit you as a leader.
 Well folks, on next week's episode number 424, our coaches sit down to pause and reflect on the relationship between internal belief and external success.
 So do not miss it.
 But we hope this was helpful to you today.
 As always, we want you to take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]