 Reorienting your financial success around what truly matters that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCredo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. Joining me today back in the studio before he heads back to Sicily
 which will be ministering in Sicily but still working with us as well as Brian Alex Brian
 Welcome back to the show and what are you doing here.
 That is an excellent question.
 So we are focusing for the entire month of the week.
 We will talk about what you are about to do.
 Well, not that I am counting but 35 days from now I will be heading back home.
 Home is Sicily and going back to re-engage the mission over there.
 You can find it at missioncicily.com.
 What is the deal?
 But now that is where I have been since 2013 after we got this thing kicked off.
 I just left you high and died.
 That is exactly it.
 I came back to check on you and now I am leaving you my youngest daughter.
 It is a fair trade.
 That doesn't sound weird at all.
 Abby, my god daughter, one of my god daughter works here with us as well.
 But fair trade.
 I am leaving an anchor and more here but I am heading back home to pick back up the work that I feel called to.
 Absolutely.
 We are ridiculously going to miss you.
 But are you really?
 Yes, we will.
 Alright.
 What are you doing here?
 Speaking of the next month when I am leaving the entire month.
 I am leaving the entire month.
 I want to just reframe for people where you are at with money.
 You and I used to work at Dave Ramsey's great place.
 Great principles changed both of our lives for the better.
 You are doing so much good there running the business.
 You are going to have a shift.
 But over the years, there have been some subtle incremental changes even from there about how you think and deal with money.
 I know your story and I have seen that trajectory for the 19 years that we have known each other.
 But I thought, man, it would be great to dig into what are the changes that have occurred.
 Maybe we can actually redefine financial success.
 That being the case, just to set this up today as you do a really cursory search online for what is financial success?
 There are tons of things that really prescribe what you should do.
 Here are the steps.
 Just launch right into follow this, do that, cut this out, do more of this.
 It's really prescriptive, but there's not a lot of good description of what financial success really means.
 Here's an interesting, well, it's a statistic that I found.
 These kinds of prescriptions exist because here's the quote, on average, 45% of Americans are financially illiterate.
 So there's a lot of good advice out there on the web, right?
 But there's very little about an approach to money.
 How should I even think about money?
 What is my relationship to money?
 So that's what I want to dig into today.
 It doesn't have to be real heavy on the, you know, here are the steps.
 We'll get into that later in the month, but to what end?
 Where are we headed with that?
 For me, just like I think every single human being needs to go through next level life.
 I think every single human being needs to go through financial peace and diversity.
 It is a just phenomenal program.
 It's just it helps you to understand finances and so let's speak to that statistic.
 On average, 45% which is a funny phrase on average, 45%
 I don't even know how to.
 About about that.
 Our financially illiterate man, that has got to be a seriously conservative number.
 And what I mean by that is when we say financially literate, my definition of that would be,
 you actually understand how finances work, you understand how debt works, you understand how interest works, you understand what it means to say,
 you understand how money actually works.
 Now, why do I say that that's got to be a conservative number?
 Because most people don't understand how money works.
 Of course they do, Chris, it's not that difficult.
 You make money, you spend money, no, it's actually considerably worse than that.
 More difficult than that, let me say that way.
 And usually we're better at the second part, right?
 Yes, yes, yes.
 If people understood how much they affect their lives and the choice of money,
 and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money,
 and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money,
 and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money,
 and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money,
 and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice of money, and the choice
 and all this kind of stuff was going on during the election period, right? Trying to get the young vote.
 You have all of these college students or young folks saying, "Oh, my gosh, absolutely college should totally be free."
 And the rich people should pay for it, right?
 And somebody went on a campus and started interviewing and said, "Okay, so let's think about this.
 If you go to college for free, somebody has to pay for that.
 "Well, yeah, it's the rich."
 "Okay, let's say it is the rich."
 And the rich, let's say they own a business, like let's say it's a fast food restaurant.
 If they have to pay for your college, what do you think is going to happen to the fast food that you're buying every day?
 Oh, we're probably going to raise the price.
 Because they're having to pay for your college.
 So guess what, you're actually going to pay for your college in the long-running place.
 Or they're working at that fast service.
 And their wages just went down.
 That's right, exactly.
 And so this concept of when you actually bring that to somebody's mind, do you see how this actually works?
 Rabbi Lap and Daniel Lap and is always talking about how the world really works.
 The truth instead of the crap that people push, it's that same kind of concept with finances.
 We believe.
 Dave says we worship at the altar of the FICO score, right?
 Because there's so much teaching that you need to have a great credit score.
 I'm pretty positive mine's been at zero for almost 20 years, right?
 So the funny thing is that I could go buy things.
 If I wanted to buy in a department complex, I go buy in a department complex, but if I go try to get an apartment at that complex, I can't get a, I can't get a place.
 Because I don't have a debt score, right?
 I don't have that credit score.
 Wouldn't you better to own the complex?
 But when you think about how stupid that is, right?
 Because we don't really understand finances.
 When people believe that having a credit score is so incredibly important,
 and they don't realize that the credit score is based on how you handle debt.
 People think that credit score means that I'm financially smart.
 No, it means that you're financially handling a lot of debt, right?
 And so that's what it's all about.
 And this type of stuff for me, what matters is actually getting an understanding of how finance is really work, how money really works.
 And keep in mind, money's a moral.
 It has no feelings.
 It has no thoughts.
 Money operates in the hands of the person, right?
 So the decisions I make, that's what's going to happen with that money.
 So it really doesn't care what happens to itself because it has no feelings.
 So long die try, bone all of that.
 Let me go, but there you go.
 No, it's a perfect segue into the first question.
 And it's going to be a little bit more of an interview style today.
 I want to ask you some questions about your story T, some of those things out.
 But before we do that, let's take a break.
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here.
 I'm the Vice President of Leadership Development on Christmas team.
 And I oversee our next level of Mastermind Business Coaching Program.
 Most business owners and leaders like a clear path to succeed in business.
 The question whether they're making the right decisions, if they're focusing on the right things, to really grow their business.
 If this is you, you need a coach in your life.
 Coaches help you make better decisions, navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively, and grow your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue and an average of 1308% increase in net profit and regain hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3.5 years simply because of the results they get.
 So if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting, then visit crissacerto.com/mastermind.
 Again, crissacerto.com/mastermind today.
 So dealing with this idea that you do tend to function and operate and perceive, have a relationship with money that's a little bit different than the average business owner.
 Like we said just a minute ago, a little bit different than you did years ago.
 And I've kind of watched that transformation.
 I want to get to that, but before we do, you work with tons of leaders and business owners.
 What is the status quo out there? What do most business leaders? What's their relationship with money and what's their idea of financial success?
 Yeah.
 So it's not a one size fits all, but more than not.
 What we see is that when it comes to the average business owner, 45% know, I don't know.
 I'm a business owner believes that money is a scorecard. You know, financial, if I'm making money, then I'm doing something right.
 Some worth issues are feeding into that totally and by definition, you know, if we're only looking this through the eyes of man, if your business is not making money, you're not being successful.
 If your business is making money, then while you must be doing something right.
 You're not doing anything right.
 Yeah, exactly. And so we stop right there.
 So we need to keep making more money because the more money we make, the more successful we are, the more worth we have, the more identity we have, all of those pieces come into play.
 And then also I get to use that money to go and buy more stuff that also screams house success why.
 You know, bigger house or more cars or whatever that I look at me. I'm really successful. You know, and we need to say this this works right on that other side on the personal life side as well because it's keeping up with the Joneses and that's the scorecard and how many things my kids are in it once and you know how, how, how,
 how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how, how
 how long to making money, you know, we own multiple businesses right now. And our goal in the early days was to diversify to continue to make money, all of that fun stuff as God drew me closer to him and focusing on your worth is not in what man sees your worth is not in men's opinion of you.
 And I'm not in the same person, I'm not in the same person, I'm not in the same person, I'm not in the same person, I'm not in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in the same person, I'm in
 You know, ever since I've been telling people money is not our number one motivator. It's not our number one motivating factor. God is our number one motivating factor. Number two is changing lives. Our goal is to change lives and for God right.
 Every single person listening to this, if we can help every person next to a life and shot plan and you know, in the leadership programs, whatever it is, that is way more important than the money. God is way more important than helping people.
 And that kind of that hierarchy that pyramid, the things that are at the bottom closer to the bottom. So you mentioned God and then people and then money. The things closer to the bottom serve the thing that's above them.
 The money number three in the list in order to affect that number two in order to affect people, the more money, the more profit, the more revenue that comes through, the more we're able to serve and love and change people's lives. Why?
 And so, the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing is the money that you're doing
 This current life is not our home. Now we'll be back here, obviously, if you actually have read the book all the way through. But the key is is that we are citizens of heaven. We are citizens of the transition. We are here to be in the world, not of the world.
 So for me to put all of my emphasis on making profit number one means that I'm believing that I'm the one making it happen. That my team is the one making it happen. That God's not the one making it happen.
 And we are more self-sufficient. When we take a look at, we talked about this in devotion all this morning actually. When we take a look at Jesus in the rich young ruler or rich ruler, I don't remember if he's actually young. But anyways, the issue he's followed the commandments and Jesus says you need to go sell the stuff that you have. Now here's a common misconception.
 He's calling Jesus a teacher, a rabbi, a robony, that he is believing that he is somebody with the power to give direction. Now what we don't understand in a Western Christian culture is when a rabbi tells you what to do. When you claim that that is your teacher that that's your rabbi, when they say you do.
 When the rich young ruler leaves unhappy, people think, oh, he just didn't like the answer, Jesus gave no, he left unhappy, most likely because he then had to go and do the things.
 So, great, Lene was bringing up this morning. Jesus turns over to the disciples and he says, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than it is for a rich person to enter the kingdom of heaven. Well, as Lene was pointing out this morning, the concept of that is that there's like small gates or even going through mountain passes there'd be a small hole and it would be called the eye of the needle.
 The gate in Jerusalem that is called the eye of the needle and it's too small for a camel to go through, but when they closed up the big gates, you had to get your camel through there's only one way you could do that. You had to take the baggage, the stuff, all the things that you have on that camel off, the camel would have to get on its knees and then be able to get through the hole, the eye of the needle.
 The concept being what Jesus is saying is, you've got to strip away the things of this world that are so important to you that's keeping you from being focused on me.
 If I'm not the most important to if stuff is, if money is, if people's admiration is, whatever that is, that's going to keep you from me.
 If you're willing to give up all that stuff and focus on me, it doesn't even have stuff. It means it can't be your worth, it can't be your, you know, that's your value, it can't be that you spend life going after those things.
 If you give those up here, I'll give you a hundred times more than the net in the kingdom of heaven.
 There should be a little record scratch right there, hold on a second.
 So everything I'm going after in this life that is my worth, once so please don't get confused. I'm not saying you can't have stuff.
 What I'm saying is, if you're going after money things, possessions, all of this stuff because it is feeding your worth, then you're not going after God, who is your worth.
 And by doing so, you are keeping yourself the reward that you're getting here is a hundred times less than 100 times less than what you can have in eternity.
 So if you spend 80 years here, you got your reward for 80 years, yes, you still get heaven, but what he's saying is that there's so much more if you will make me your priority.
 That is such a big part of my life is not going at, I put my head down and made a lot of money and bought stuff and did things and then when I lifted my head up, it was like God was smacking me upside the head of the two by four going, look at what you're missing man, is all this stuff important.
 And I say that profit is not our number one motivating factor, it's at best our third. Now, here's the other side of that. And by the way, we teach every business, business owner, leader who wants to go and kill it in their business, we teach them exactly how to do that.
 But to make as much money as they want to make, but along the way for most of them, if they're open to it, we also help to teach this God perspective in which everybody has always been open to them.
 So for me, we're not operating a business, that's not profitable. We're not none of the businesses are not profitable. Every one of them is profitable. You have to have profit to be able to operate a business to keep your doors open otherwise it's a colossal waste of time.
 There's one that's currently not, we just bought the ridge and we just were building or hoping to move our business and a whole bunch of other stuff right now, that's a big money hole because we're building up.
 We can invest my right now, but even that will be profitable, that's the goal is to help people get an even greater life change experience, right? So if it's not profitable, we're just not going to do it.
 But here's the bigger key. If it's up to me, it's only going to be as good as I can do it. If it's up to this team, it's only going to be as good as this team can do it. If I do not recognize that my sufficient sea is in God, and other words, the he is the provider of everything.
 If I do not make him number one, if I do not focus on obedience to him, if I do not recognize he's the one who's making all this stuff happen. Even though I tell myself all the time, I'm so great.
 I don't actually tell myself this, but a lot of people actually do believe it or not, I'm so amazing. I'm looking at all I'm doing, look at all I'm creating, look at all that kind of mindset says that I'm self-sufficient, which is saying I don't need God.
 I usually doesn't respond very well to that. I mean, it comes out of self-sufficiency, but really you're in essence saying, I'm dependent on this working out. I'm just been on future success and increase in revenue and all of that.
 And then if and when that doesn't happen or you experience setbacks, you're worth, then takes a major hit because all along you've been tied to it, serving it and depending on that success.
 But when it doesn't work out, this is when we tend to turn to God going, why aren't you making this happen? Why aren't you blessing him?
 Like, where have you been?
 God's very clear to the jute heights, not the juteisers, the juteisers.
 When he says, "Do you not recognize when you go out into your fields that I have cut your crops in half?"
 I'm the one doing that because you're not focused on me, you're focused on you.
 It's an attention, get her.
 Good, and it's gracious. Think about this for a second. The king of the universe, the God who owns us is saying, if you keep making you more important than me, then I'll cut your crops in half.
 And the bad thing is, you won't even recognize it because you're so focused on you.
 When you recognize that, I look at this business and I'm like blown away at how much when we are obedient, when we are focused on God, when we're focused on helping people, how much he keeps sending, how much he keeps doing what the business, how much he keeps doing it bigger than we would even imagine.
 The buildings that I've purchased in the beginning phases, we're going to be so much smaller, and the process is in the things because I could only see what I could do.
 But I put my face in God and he's blown things away. I'm just just been incredible. So I hope all of that makes sense.
 Yeah, I mean, and it really sets up, because right now what I want to do is I want to let's go back in time because this is not where you begin. This is where you have arrived.
 In the early days, I mean, and we can you can start with how you grew up, kind of home. I mean, you even talked about that this morning and devotional, the kind of home you grew up in, but then I mean, you came out of the gate chasing what you thought was going to make you feel worthy and important and you decided, you know, I'm not going to keep going without. I want to have things.
 I want to get that was a primary motivation as it is with so many of the people listening or at least it had been at some point in their careers as well. So I just want to tether that in. Let's start there. Where did you grow up? What was that like? And what sent you towards a business career?
 I grew up in like to a whole very poor. We didn't know we were poor. We didn't realize that we were poor, but we were poor. But when none of the other neighbors are washing their clothes out on the front step and a washboard there were times there were clues there were times that we went without electricity.
 There were times that we ate government cheese and if you were of that era, it was fantastic cheese. Oh my gosh, it was the best. Not as good as velvet. Oh, come on. Come on. Oh, it turned a crap when I went to velvet.
 Actually, I wasn't eating it.
 I'm sandwiched. Yeah. But we were there were times we didn't have electricity. There were times we were being scholarship onto the football team. You know, there was time we just didn't have a lot of money. Then there was a time we were rich.
 And we had a lot of money. And that went for a couple of years and then lost all of that and back to poor. And so interestingly, and again, I do believe that poor is a mindset.
 We weren't thinking about it that way. We were just at least me. I don't know. Let me just speak for myself.
 I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know
 By the time I got to 18 and my mom had had an accident, so I had to go to work full time and take care of things even when I was younger than that, not younger than 14, but in my late teens and when I got to 18 years old, I believed this line that credit cards were financial independence.
 That meant something. I could show that I was somebody right. And so I immediately went out and got to visa mask card American Express. Well, the whole training.
 So here's something to understand back in those days, a minimum payment on a visa mask card was like 10 bucks, 15 bucks. American Express, you have to pay every month.
 Yeah, the pay for it. And I was sharing the story that with Lenin's mom, we started dating and I wanted to impress the daylights out of her.
 I was 19 years old at the time and I wanted to impress the daylights out of her. And so I took her out and spent all money.
 226 dollars, which at 19 years old back in 1989, that was a lot of money. And that, well, I just didn't show me a minimum payment on the things. I just sent them like 25 bucks.
 And that I was in a VHS store, a video source, you remember those things. And I was renting a movie. I'd love to know what movie I was trying to rent. That would be hilarious.
 And I handed the guy in my card and then he did some stuff, picked up a phone and he hung out the phone and he looked at me. I'm so sorry.
 I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry
 I'm just, I'm going to immediately that changed. I grew up not being in, you know, staying away from debt, debts of horrible thing. This is a terrible thing. Oh, but now I'm a man.
 I got into debt and quickly went, nope, this is stupid. And let me fix this thing and change the way that I operated.
 That's one big mile marker that I remember you, you saying a week or two ago, I think I heard you say that you used to score really high on the economic, right?
 Because that was a big value talking about the disc and values. That was a huge value. I mean, and that took a huge blow right there at that that mile marker.
 Well, where did that change start? That's actually later on in life. Okay. I didn't, I was, I stayed out of credit card debt for the most part. I think, you know, I really didn't do anything. Here's the funny thing peer pressure kicks in.
 I've been a ministering in the mid-90s. I have had a fantastic pickup truck since I'm 18 years old, but it's rust and, you know, primer and I loved it. It was loud, it was fast, it was great.
 I've been a youth ministry now and all the other youth leaders that are in youth ministry have better cars. And so I had this peer pressure, men's opinion. Nobody even knew what I drove, but I convinced myself that I needed a new car.
 I got into debt for a new car and because of the stupid thing that happened, you know, half a dozen years before, I had this ridiculous interest rate. That was dumb. And so I was working to get out of that and then bought a house.
 And I was working to get out of that house. And I was working to get out of that house. And I was working to get out of that house.
 1999, while right at around 2000, I made the decision this is it, I'm done. I want out of everything. I want out as fast as I can.
 So Dave and I had gone to church for a year together, his kids came up through the youth group and now I'm working with Dave. I was just helping out. I was just helping out at one of the events.
 I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going to be a new house. I was going
 So since 2005, I've not had since 2001, I've not had any consumer debt since 2005, I haven't had a mortgage right. So during that time on the values profile, you know, we teach disc and values here, also called motivators.
 So the economic was like 83 and the reason why was because for me, I wanted out money was super important to me. I wanted to get this done. I wanted to get out of this.
 So it's interesting, while I was getting out of debt that economics date high, now my altruist was always the highest.
 I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it.
 I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a big company. I was a
 I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt. I was just trying to get out of debt
 I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn't think of it. I didn
 I was watching you go after getting that house paid. I mean, you're just gazelle intent as as Dave would say. So the chasing started to shift. You started chasing after something else other than the wind and value started to shift in terms of it went from the high economic of I need money for value and worth.
 And a sense of accomplishment and success. And it shifted over to something else. And I want to start digging into that. We probably need to break for a second and we'll talk about that when we come back.
 But you've been listening to me for any length of time. The new no the number one issue when it comes to business when it comes to family when it comes to friendships is having a lack of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life, it all starts with having great communication.
 To understand your personality style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with whether it be at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to crissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your team to day get it for your family members to day.
 And that profile you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate go to crissacrittle.com/store 2 day.
 Alright so coming back to your story and I think where I'd love for this to hit is there are other people who are listening and I mean I'm even resonating with your story myself.
 There's people that are listening that are going, "Ah wow, okay that was me or that's where I am or oh that could be me."
 And I want to start pointing to Shetalite on that shift where the chasing after the wind became a chasing after God.
 What God wanted for you and what God wanted you to do. And so that lens shifted God took the center place.
 So can you talk about that? What did that look like for you?
 I'm trying to tell you what you were saying about Solomon and it clearly asked these. He's saying, "You know I'm going to paraphrase Solomon because I'm just not amazing."
 Because I get called it specifically is the reason.
 She's saying, "Go get everything you want. Go make as much money as you want. Go have as many wives as you want. Go have as money. You know go get this stuff. Go impress the daylights out of everybody. But understand at any moment God can thump your world and it's all gone.
 And it's all in vain. You will have recognized you did all of this in vain. And I think this is the piece that we don't recognize. We don't even think about God can do anything he wants to do at any time.
 God allowed Solomon to amass everything that he amassed. He also allowed him to bring paganism into worship with God. So interestingly King David did some pretty crazy sins against man.
 We can see that. We can see the adultery. We can see the murder. We can see all kinds of stuff. Now there's a lot of killing that he did that wasn't murder. It was in different separate. We're talking about the legit sins against man.
 God still kept him king of Israel. He never took Israel away from King David. Solomon did not. Solomon didn't go out and do those types of sins against man. He sent more against God by bringing paganism in, by bringing it all the different wives and allowing them to have their gods be a part of Israel and what a god do. He ripped Israel from him.
 And so it's an interesting way of looking at God's focus where he's wanting us to be so focused on him. You know, even through all the ridiculousness that David did and by the way, I've done a ton of ridiculousness. He still kept God as his focus is his only god.
 So as Solomon gets towards the end of the book and he's experienced a lot of things. What's he saying? Hey, don't be stupid like the younger version of me was to think that stuff was important to think that impressing man was important to think that having to have all these people come and be a part of stuff and that you're so amazing that that's the thing.
 Because at any moment, God who still owns you as allowing all this to happen, he can just dump your world and you lose everything.
 Well, it's not fair. Of course it's fair. It's his to do. Right. That was a big shift for me.
 It was recognizing that so much of my efforts were in vain. Now keep in mind, I've always been an altruist. I've been trying to help people since I was a kid.
 Yeah, talk about what is an altruist. Somebody who's really disposed towards acting on the benefit of others.
 Absolutely. One who loves to develop others always say one who loves to remove the pain of the world wants to take care and passionate.
 Can be a dormant to society because we tend to allow people to walk all over us because we're trying to help them, which is why we do next level.
 How to put healthy boundaries in place. Since I was a kid, I've been trying to help people. I remember in school trying to help other kids.
 The funny thing is, is when you're kid a lot of people don't listen to you. Right.
 But for my whole life, I've been trying to help people. But there came this point when I realized I am hurting myself by making really stupid financial decisions and things like that.
 So that's when my economic kicked in. Got rid of that stuff and then that really allowed me to focus heavily on helping more people. However, the whole time I had been hearing God tell me that I'm not spending enough time with him.
 I'm doing those things. But it's just nothing like it needed to be.
 The most traumatic time I've ever experienced in my life and in the bottom of that, I found myself just going, I have no other option. I need to get on my knees for as long as I can possibly be.
 I've been in my life for hours and hours and hours. I'm literally multiple hours every single day.
 I've been in my life for hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and
 I've been exhausted every path. He found everything he could delight himself with accumulating all the money. He went down until there was a dead end at the end of every trail.
 I've been in my life for hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and hours and
 It's the ability to say, "Oh, no, I don't need that because I'm too smart for that. I'm too wise. My wisdom is my clutch. My knowledge is my scratch."
 What does a relationship with the God Almighty? How is that a clutch? It's much more than a clutch. It's the freaking trauma word. It's the ICU.
 It's not a clutch. It's not something that helps you get through life. You're going to get through this life and stand before him. No way stands about it. It doesn't matter if you say he doesn't exist. It doesn't matter if you try to convince yourself that it's not going to happen. That way.
 You're good person. You don't know how he operates. You don't know how he works. He's getting on my knees for more than five minutes at a time and spending more than 15 minutes in the Bible every single day created a pattern for me.
 We're just talking about the eye of the needle. It has to divest all of those things that it's burdened with. All the things that it's accumulated and it gets down on its knees and it wiggles its way through that narrow gate.
 It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle. It's a miracle
 It shifted in me. It shifted in me and I was never Solomon. I wasn't going after money. I made a lot of money and went after some stuff.
 We all do to whatever our means allow us to. We go down that path seeking that clutch that we want to prop us up.
 I'm not sure if we're going to be able to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to be able to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to be able to do that.
 I'm not sure if we're going to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to do that. I'm not sure if we're going to do that. I'm not
 He's going to remind you he is your only efficiency. If it's up to you, it's all vain because what you can't really do anything. No matter how much you try, you convince yourself that you're the one who creates all of your success.
 I'm not allowed every single thing and he can stop allowing it anytime. So to get to that place of understanding, I am 1,000% dependent upon God.
 I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm not a good person. I'm
 I've been on there. There is so much more that we could talk about how about we talk about it.
 We make this into a part 2 and we'll come back next time. I want to continue with okay, that helps us understand the trajectory you were on where you've gotten to now.
 I'm not sure if you're going to be able to do that. I'm not sure if you're going to be able to do that.
 I'm not sure if you're going to be able to do that. I'm not sure if you're going to be able to do that.
 (upbeat music)
 [BLANK_AUDIO]