 [Music]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 Joining me in the studio are two of the coaches here, Joel Fortner.
 Welcome.
 Thank you.
 Aaron West, who is actually not in this, well, you're in the studio because you're on a computer,
 but you're in your most.
 Yeah, you are remote in cross-volt Tennessee, joining us.
 The amazing one, technology can date today.
 So welcome to the studio by video.
 There you go.
 Thank you.
 Today we are pausing and reflecting.
 We did this in Q1.
 This is our Q2 pausing reflect where we're taking a look back on the things that we've been
 discussing over the last quarter.
 And essentially saying, okay, we have talked a lot in the last few episodes about how beliefs
 drive our decision making.
 And so we've shared a lot of content, a lot of information.
 And what we wanted to do again is just get the coaches in here and
 talk through specific personal things, specific to us of how beliefs have affected our decision making.
 So today what we are doing is we are from our perspectives, telling stories or illustrating
 how important beliefs are in our lives and our leadership and our careers.
 And so we're going to be speaking the three of us from personal areas.
 And why is this so important?
 So much of what we do here, whether it is in the coaching and the business side,
 whether it's in the leadership side, whether it's in the life side,
 if it's next to our live, if it's our mastermind program,
 no matter how key leader programs, no matter what it is,
 we spend so much time helping folks to understand or reframe or remove things that have to do with their
 beliefs systems.
 I'll take next level of life, for example, you guys can run on some of the business stuff.
 But just next level of life, we talk a lot on the show about and we talk a lot in the events.
 About how much our beliefs system we call, what are the things we talk about as the lies and how much the lies impact the decision
 of making that we make? Every single person tells themselves lies. Every person has something I'm not good enough.
 I'm too fat, I'm too skinny, I'll never be loved, I'll never make enough money,
 I'll never be good enough to have a great spouse, I'll never be a great leader.
 Whatever it is, we all have and there's 10 billion of them, or as Keanu would say,
 11 billion, it's a real number. That's a real number, it's a set of life reference right there.
 Since we were talking about Keanu Reeves before we started the show, yes, we did have that kind of thing.
 We were going to have John Wick on the show, but we thought this is too violent.
 Well, so Brian's talking about how the best mashup would be matrix for since NEO's dead,
 he's plugged into the system as John Wick, and that is, it's not that serious.
 That's so, hey, Hollywood, Brian's belief system.
 No spoiler alerts for any of you other people out there who have not seen matrix 3.
 Right, yeah, yeah. Oh, yeah, that if you've not seen matrix 3, right now.
 Boyle or alert on the title of this podcast, we're going to give away something from one of those that, like 90s,
 let's see the other stuff.
 That's impressive.
 Anyway, anyway, yeah, well, okay, we are professional dorks here, folks, if you haven't figured that out yet.
 So, you know, when we look at the lies that we tell ourselves, if I'm believing that I'm not good enough,
 if I'm believing that I'm not smart enough, if I'm believing that I'm not,
 maybe I'm not, you know, the things that I feel like I should be,
 the problem isn't whether or not it's, you know, the accuracy of the lie, if it's only half a lie,
 or if it's three-fourths of a lie, or ten percent of a lie, either way, it's not truth.
 And that affects my decision making process, because I take that belief with me.
 I run with it. I make decisions in life.
 So, that's just the next, that's one aspect of next level of life.
 So, speak a little bit more on the life side. So many things in our belief system, those nuances and details.
 We don't see that stuff. We don't see it as belief system. It's just how we operate.
 We're not telling the decisions.
 It's just a belief system.
 Exactly. And until you show up in next civil life and we start peeling back all these layers, the lies,
 why are the surface of a response is there. Why are you making decisions like that?
 It's all of a sudden. It's like, well, I've never even had anyone talk to me about making decisions like that.
 Let's let alone why don't have any perspective. I've literally never talked about why I make decisions the way that I do,
 because I've never had anyone around me to ever even ask me, why did you say that?
 And why do you think that? And you've connected that piece of information to this piece.
 And earlier you said this, when I lay all that back out to you, what do you think about that?
 And it's like, man. And so this reminds me of even the event I was just leading last week about one of the things after the event.
 She said, was that this causes you to look at the world around you in a totally different way.
 And so much of it had to do with a reframing or learning more about her belief system.
 So for instance, one thing that people struggle with a lot, especially people who come from a guilt background,
 that there's a lot of guilt, there's a lot of shame, there's cycles of self-sabotage with guilt and shame,
 and not feeling good enough, and that people trapped himself in that cycle in the belief oftentimes is,
 well, I have to work my way out of it. I have to prove my worth and I have to be good enough,
 and I have to drive at these goals, and I have to be this way with people, and it's a decision making process,
 and there's such a belief of, I have to work to earn my worth.
 That I'm not good enough as it is, so I have to work, and I'm constantly chasing a moving line,
 and you'll never ever chase it.
 And so what's included in that belief system, it's, well, I've got to work,
 but also I can't ever give myself grace, I can never give myself forgiveness, let alone,
 I can never receive it from the Lord.
 Yeah, and you say, trapped in this cycle, and we're able, this, just to get into a little more like the power
 of understanding belief systems, when you pull back all these details, you're really able to see,
 do you see the nuances of how you're making decisions because of what you believe,
 and it's why it's so incredibly eye-opening for people?
 Absolutely. Are you going to think of the leadership side?
 Yeah, and I'm going to say, I mean, what you're describing to all the lot of what we hear from our clients,
 when we do one-on-one coaching, whether mastermind clients, whether we're doing key leaders program,
 or whatever it may be, it's so funny how many of these people are thrust into a leadership role
 or into a business ownership, and one of the things we hear is, I don't know how to lead.
 What does that look like?
 And their whole belief system is shaped around what they have experienced in their own life,
 even go back to some root system stuff, and things like that that weeks forward next to the life,
 but understanding that, hey, what you think leadership is may or may not be right,
 and what we're going to do is we're going to reshape, we're going to reform some of those things
 to help you see what true leadership really is.
 And it's so funny how many times we come out of those conversations and they go,
 gosh, that was common sense. I don't know why I wasn't really thinking about that,
 but they just experienced a new mindset on things, and it's really,
 well, that really wasn't that dumb. It really was actually very easy to do that.
 I wish I had just thought about that the first time.
 So it's very interesting to see that perspective from our clients as well.
 Yeah, you know, we say, well, I say it from time to time, you know,
 you're taught how to lead by those who led you.
 And it's so sometimes we think, I should know better, and yet many times what we discover is nobody taught us.
 Right? Well, but I'm a smart person, yes, but still until that reframing happens.
 Until we help that person to look at leadership from a different lens or through different lens.
 Until they learn, their worth is not in, you know, hiding their failures,
 and their identity isn't having the title.
 It's, you know, the greater purpose of making people great and, and
 guiding people to being successful on all those pieces.
 Until they actually hear that, and from somebody who's an expert who's done this before,
 they still continue to walk through going, I don't know what I'm doing.
 I know that I'm, I have this title. I do my 47,000 tasks each day, and maybe I say hi to a team member.
 So I'm not really leading anybody.
 But I know that I should be doing stuff, but I just don't know what it is, and then reframing that into a way of, hey,
 here's what it looks like to lead somebody else to success, which of course we always start with,
 hey, let's try to move all the crap that's holding you back, and help you to see the flawed thinking, right?
 And again, it's flawed thinking, why is it flawed thinking?
 Because it's coming from humans. We've learned how to lead people from the people who let us, and it may be that the only leadership that we ever had was parenting,
 right?
 Instead of actual good quality leaders in business.
 So those are the things that we are talking about today.
 What does it look like to change our belief system, or what does it look like to have our belief system drive us?
 And I'm, I'm just going to jump out here.
 I'll get started on one of the things that you hit Joe, and, you know, it's not from any specific situation.
 I could share probably 4,000, but for me, one of the things that has held me back my whole life is guilt.
 And it doesn't even have to be here's the funny thing, and I discovered this a few decades into life,
 that a lot of guilt, a lot of my belief system of being guilty was driven by accusation.
 A lot of it was driven by situation where somebody was looking to me to be their worth, to be their happiness, to be their,
 than being okay. And when things didn't go the way that it should go, then it was my fault somehow.
 Even if I had zero to do with it, even if I was not even in the same room, the same city, somehow it's my fault.
 You know, this is something I've done, I've said, didn't do should have known whatever,
 aligned with this person or these people actually, I should say that, not being happy.
 So much so that as I walked through life, I was constantly looking to please people.
 I always felt like I was the problem. I'm the reason why this person's not happy.
 I'm the reason why they're not doing well.
 Any second now, they're going to recognize that I'm their problem.
 So whether it was in relationships or friendships or whatever, or even leaders that I worked under,
 I was always waiting for that shoe to drop that was going to say on the problem.
 I'm the fault. So when I actually was the problem or when I was the fault, the amount of guilt was heavy.
 I mean, it was huge. So when I look at big mistakes that I've made in my life, and in our message here is, you know,
 learn from your mistakes, try not to do those again. Everybody's going to screw up. You're going to do stupid.
 And we got to this place because I needed a shift in my life and praise God, God gave it to me,
 where he helped me to see the lies and he helped me to see how much that was driving.
 My decision making, the guilt that it was holding you back and that any help me to see what guilt is my.
 You know, the stupid that I've done in life because I've done tons of stupid.
 You know, I think everybody needs to get to a place in life where they recognize how much dumb that they've done and how much they've hurt people and how much they've messed things up.
 But a part of that because I do believe that's healthy to recognize when you make the bad decisions,
 but a healthy part of that is also recognizing when you aren't when you're not responsible, right?
 We're not talking about being a victim here.
 If you've been through next level, if you hear me say, or you hear us say, take responsibility for the decisions you've made, for the decisions you've made.
 However, a belief system in mine is guilt and I don't know what you guys are going to hit on, but for me, that excess guilt,
 that amount of not being able to let things go or taking on things that weren't mine, you know,
 taking the guilt from people's situations and carrying that with me for a decent amount of my life caused me to hold back.
 And the reason that it did is because I didn't want to do something.
 I would hold myself back because I was afraid of putting my neck out there.
 I was afraid of putting myself at a situation where I became the responsibility of somebody's unhappiness.
 I can't imagine. I think back on in my earlier days of things that I could have done, or things that I would have been, you know, I would have made really good decisions on,
 or experiences that I could have had or risks that I could have taken that I just held back.
 I believed if I do this, I may hurt somebody else. If I do this, I may cause somebody else's pain.
 If I do this, somebody else will look at me and go, you're the reason I'm not happy right now.
 And that affected me greatly.
 It's still something that decades later, I still deal with this.
 It's something, you know, and again, what we teach the next level of life is we give the tools of how to work through this,
 how to deal with this, how to get rid of it very quickly or at least as fast as you can, and get on to truth, right?
 So there's things that have held me back even later on in life where I immediately recognize myself stepping into a guilt role, even if I'm not guilty, right?
 Or I am guilty of something, I am guilty of stupid or hurting somebody or whatever the thing is.
 And instead of looking at it with a critical eye, that's not what I want to say, a right measurement.
 Instead, I overweigh the amount of guilt that comes with it. I do something, and I beat myself up, you know, ten times more than I should.
 Because of all my gosh, I've just affected that. So badly, praise God, we have tools to deal with that stuff.
 Because there was a time in my life where that would just stay, it could stay for years.
 There are things that could, you know, drive decision making for years.
 There's things that could drive me to be cautious for years or to lose out on friendships or whatever for years.
 Because of how much I hated feeling like I was the reason that somebody was struggling or suffering.
 Having been hit upside the head by God on recognizing that and a lot of other things and so much of the stuff that we teach.
 That's where I feel like God helps me to have the tools to discover my worth and him.
 That my worth isn't in people, my worth isn't in people pleasing, my worth isn't in making somebody happy.
 And one of the best pieces of information that I feel like God shared with me decades ago was that I can't actually make anybody happy.
 I can't make you happy.
 Besides the fact that happiness is purely a choice.
 I either have to choose to be happy or choose not to be happy.
 It's not like joy.
 Joy is like almost for me.
 I say a spiritual feeling that is almost involuntary, right?
 But happiness is a choice.
 I can choose to be happy right now. I can choose not to be happy.
 So for me I went through so much of my life looking at, you know,
 Can I make this person happy?
 Can I avoid making them unhappy and praise God when he helped me to see?
 That's not my job.
 That's not my role.
 It's not my responsibility and it's completely irrational.
 Because no matter how much I try, maybe I do something and you choose to be happy.
 But how many times for those of us that are, you know,
 I'm a people pleaser, my name is Chris.
 How many of those of us is Aaron raised?
 How many times have we actually stepped out and done something that it's like this should really make this person happy?
 And that person just kind of looks at you with the, you know, the deer and the headlights look of like what?
 No matter what I'm not going to be happy.
 Sorry, I'm at a phone, I'm at a mood.
 So I think, you know, like I say, one of the favorite things for me was when God helped me to see this and give me the tools to shift out of that.
 It doesn't mean that the guilt feeling doesn't come up.
 It just means that I handle it differently.
 It means that I get to it faster.
 It means that I solve it faster.
 It means that I get to quality perspective faster.
 What we teach all the time and, actually, of life or the leadership programs or whatever is whenever somebody,
 whenever it appears that that somebody is guilty, you first asked the question, did I do something wrong?
 You know, beyond it, don't be a victim.
 This isn't happening, you know, two you unless you let it happen to you, but for the love, if you did something wrong, take responsibility.
 Take right responsibility, hand of the situation.
 If it is not that, in somebody's being controlling, manipulate of whatever, then healthy boundary, immediately.
 I'm sorry, that's not truth, I'm not receiving that, and of course we walk through a bunch of other tools in it.
 That has changed the second half of my life.
 That has changed for the most part.
 There's still some things that I've had to work through that have taken longer than, you know, a one minute conversation.
 But that has changed the second half of my life of being able to put healthy things in place and be able to teach people and be able to help people to see, oh my gosh, that is what I'm doing.
 I am responding that way.
 I am a people, please, or I do receive all of the responsibility for somebody's happiness.
 And so that was a big piece that affected me for many, many years and praise God that God wants us to see.
 He wants us to see our mistakes. He wants us to understand our mistakes. He wants us to understand the consequences of our mistakes.
 But he also wants us to change. He wants us to be in a right mindset. He wants us to have a right belief system.
 He wants us to understand what is a right level of anything like guilt.
 So, full lot of information.
 Chris, I actually want to jump off of something that you said there because I think it's so important with our, the people that listen to this podcast and it's not just the business owners.
 But one of the things that you started talking about and it really hit home for me.
 And you guys need to know, this is this whole podcast here is not scripted. We have no idea what each other is going to say on this, which is what's kind of fun about this.
 But you talked about worrying about making other people happy.
 And I think about the leaders, especially the leaders that I have been a part of helping them who are not business owners, who are not the CEOs, who are not the top presidents.
 But how many times they go into meetings, they go into conversations with their leader.
 And they go, I'm doing this to make my leader happy.
 I'm doing this so that this person will be happy with me.
 And how many times that wrong mindset, like you were just talking about, can take us down a path that we don't want to go.
 And I'm going to kind of ask a question, this wasn't intended, but I kind of ask a question, how do you, as a leader, then, how do you work your way out of something like that?
 What does that look like for you to realize, gosh, my job is not making my leader happy?
 That's not what I'm supposed to do.
 So for me, the biggest answer by far, and people have heard this a bajillion times on the show, is you've got to get to a place where you discover what your true worth is.
 So for those of us that are believers, if you ask a question, what is your worth, they will say, oh, being a child of God?
 Which is a right answer, it's a part of a right answer.
 But then whenever I get that I go, what does that mean?
 And you will just see that that I'm God's child.
 Yes, absolutely, what does that mean?
 You know, I don't know.
 And that's about the distance that they can go on that answer.
 The truth is I am a child of God. He is my father, but he is not me, which I am.
 But he is a phenomenally loving father who has chased my heart my whole life, who has come after me my whole life, who has pushed me to live as much of a right life.
 So I can not salvation is not through works, but to have salvation and then to have a right relationship with him and has pushed me to teach other people and to have better relationships with others.
 He's saved me.
 It's so interesting.
 A lot of people don't see this.
 We're talking about it probably a couple of months in our Bible study, but when you see Joseph's brothers,
 so if we go back to biblical times in Genesis 30, the 8-ish, when Joseph's brothers plot to kill him,
 and then Ruben and Judah are like, "Oh, don't kill him. Let's sell him or let's throw him in a pit or Judas like, let's sell him."
 Interestingly, a lot of translations say that they sold him to the Ishmaelites,
 but that's not actual accurate translation.
 The Midianites come along, pull him out of the sister, and they sell him to the Ishmaelites.
 God protected the brothers, these become the tribes of Israel, right?
 God protected them from themselves. He protected them from murder.
 He protected them from even the consequences that would come with selling.
 There's plenty of consequences that came anyways, but there's so many times when I look in my life,
 and I go, you have kept, you saved me from my own stupidity.
 Only an incredibly loving father does that.
 Then I look at the blessings that I've received, which are just immense.
 There's no lack of God blessed to get my life.
 Why would he bless me so much like that? Because of how crazy and love he is with me?
 Then I bring it down to a human form and I look at, "Well, I'm a dad. What do I want for my kids?"
 "How do I want to bless them?"
 "What do I want them to know about themselves?"
 One of the things for me, and I'll point back to Meg Meeker on this conversation we had,
 "She's got an old 10 years ago or so, where she helped me to recognize, like for me,
 when I would look at a child, "Oh, you're so cute, you're so adorable.
 Look how pretty you look in your little dress. Look how handsome you look with your little child."
 The very things I teach people not to do with adults, I would do with little kids.
 She helped me to say, "Yeah, no, compliment the character that you want them to have."
 Focus on that. Oh my gosh, how ridiculous.
 This is something I teach all the time for adults, right?
 Focus on the qualities and characteristics you want to have.
 And that helped me to see something a great father isn't focusing on surface level worth.
 He's focusing on the things that matter to him.
 The character is six the qualities that matter to him. So this very long answer to your question.
 But when you can get to a place of actually looking at your worth in God and what he says you're actually worth.
 It's an all the things that he's done for you and given you the opportunities to have those relationships and
 seriously, I could talk about this for about another four hours on what your worth in God is,
 then it helps you to look around and go, "Wait a second. My worth isn't in my leader's eyes.
 My worth isn't in the judgment of a leader.
 My worth is what God says my worth is, my worth to this leader is what I can do for this leader inside of this business.
 Not to make that leader happy."
 So when you look at it from that aspect, then hopefully you show up every day and go, "Well, I'm getting paid to do a phenomenal job."
 And so my worth to the business is that.
 I should do that. I should bust that. I should make that happen.
 Now one of the things we teach here is that when I look at people, I don't look at your worth,
 Aaron, as somebody who's supposed to come and do a job here.
 I instead look at your worth as how God sees you or at least the best of my abilities to see what he says your worth is.
 And that's way more powerful to me. Because if I can help foster that, then what you're going to do as a job is just going to be 100 times better.
 Does that answer?
 Absolutely. It was just a great thought because it took me down the path even I've experienced that before, where gosh,
 I'm so focused on making my leader happy that I realized that that wasn't what I was going after.
 And you know, hearing our clients talk to this and struggle through this and want to be able to speak into that piece for them as well.
 What is it they need to be seeing?
 Instead of going, "Hey, instead of my mindset being on, how do I make my leader happy?
 Or how do I make my team happy? What should my mindset be?"
 And I think you answered it beautifully there. So thank you for sharing that. I appreciate that.
 Absolutely.
 I think something is a came to mind as you guys were talking was especially in a leadership like in a business setting as leaders,
 how important is it for us to have alignment and beliefs system within the team and that something as we're actually when we're leading well,
 we are teaching and we're coaching, we're training.
 And so much of that is in this whole thing that we say, "How do we do it here?"
 And it speaks to culture but it really speaks to alignment and that are we teaching belief system.
 So if you've got a bunch of people on your team that all believe this is how we should act as a team,
 just stand back and look at that. You look at the chaos and the difficulty that you're having and why the actions and attitudes and behaviors are all over the place.
 And as a leader it can be completely frustrating and even hopeless at times.
 Like what do I do with these people? And it's well, I need to learn how to lead people.
 And one of the biggest first steps of that is that when we're really teaching, you've got to get yourself freed up so you can now go lead more and we teach what leadership really looks like,
 heavily focusing on the culture of the team. You're teaching so much belief system because you're putting boundaries in place.
 You're teaching core values. You're teaching these are right actions and these are wrong actions.
 These are right attitudes and wrong attitudes. And it's like we're massaging the team into place, but it's not in just behavior.
 Because behavior follows belief. We're actually instilling. This is how we believe here.
 So think about how difficult, I think about air and how difficult that situation you lined out is as you're a leader reporting to a leader and you're a you realize man,
 I really don't want to be aiming at making you happy, but what if you work for a leader that that's their goal for you?
 It's they want you to make them happy. And because maybe you're that leader, you know, leader listening to this and it's like, well,
 that's something we need to work on into a just because it's about it's not about happiness here when it comes to really what you're talking about Chris.
 It's what are the beliefs and the team and the culture that I want and I start to lead those because I look back.
 You know, when I reflect on our team, where I reflect even on my family is that we're trying to have unity around what do we believe as a team.
 And then we go on to train the behavior part of it and we have what do we have more up. We have more unity. We have less conflict.
 We get more done. Everyone's every what is happier. You know, how about that, how that works out at times.
 And there's all this goodness that flows from that. So I think as an encouragement to leaders that are listening to this is, is go after training,
 believe system within your team, train, believe system within your home, especially as believers and in God.
 It's we're training belief system that we raise up our kids and that's all they ever know.
 All they ever know is the Lord. All they never know is the Bible and commandments and what righteous living looks like.
 But it has to be led somewhere.
 And I think, you know, something I've shared with the team forever is, you know, every now and then I'll say in staff meeting, don't come to work for me.
 Come to work for the Lord. You have today. You have eight hours today to come in and bust it for God because he has his will and his purposes for you.
 Go do that. If you do that, I don't ever have to worry about you. I don't have to manage you. You know, in leading you is super easy or it's not it's not very difficult.
 But if you come into work for me, if you come into work for Chris LeCardo every day, now I've got to manage that because now you have expectations.
 You're going to be looking for things in me. You're going to be looking for, you know, did you make me happy? Are you taking that responsibility?
 You know, have you got enough paths on the back today? Everything's going to be about Chris.
 And it's just a colossal waste of time. Now again, that does not mean that we don't respect the owners, the leaders, all that kind of stuff. What I'm saying is, is that I don't come to work for me.
 Now, I'm in the business, but still, that's a philosophy I've had for many, many years is that I'm coming to work. God's given me this opportunity today to go bust it somehow, coaching, writing, speaking, doing a podcast.
 Whatever it is, the fall focus on making God happy, the great thing is I don't have to focus on making man happy. So I think, so on that, like that's, I mean to be vulnerable with everybody, everyone here in the room, everyone listening.
 When I struggle the most is when I come to work in it's for you.
 When I come to work and you're on my mind, or you know what I'm saying, it's a serious song there.
 There's something in there, something there. Let's figure that out.
 But when I struggle the most is when I'm not keeping right perspective of focusing on why am I here.
 And I'm coming to work for you because I'm fearing, disappointing you, or I'm fearing failing and that disappointing you.
 And then to kind of like tie a whole bunch of things together here of what we're talking about of coming to belief system, where does that come from?
 You know, they're direct linkages back to my roots system in my past.
 And I think that's why I will come to work and all of the sudden, I'm embracing it.
 It's fear driven, I feel like I can control, you know, I become a victim, you know, this is how Chris is going to respond to that.
 It's this completely toxic cycle.
 But I can see so well where these things come from, like in my past and in my life.
 And then when I, it's like, well, how do I get out of that place rather than coming to work and then realizing,
 Wait a minute, where are you at, man?
 It's like, look at now how you're responding, take responsibility for what you're doing.
 And then you're able to shift your thinking using what we teach.
 You're literally able to just shift your belief system or cancel a lot of your belief system that's so ingrained because it's now shifting to right perspective on it is about God.
 And it's about it is about truths and perspective of first of all, who's your leader, who's your best friend, what are his attributes, what's his character, how do we respond to things around here?
 Why is this such a big deal if you did fell at that? And you start pounding that historic belief system and punching it in the face with truth and perspective?
 But then another powerful tool to go to is all that you're grateful for.
 Of what am I grateful for, like about that God has provided, what am I grateful for when it comes to this person that I'm now fearing?
 Because what I have found, I share this in the next level of life all the time, is when you're being a victim to somebody, that's who they are, I mean they are your enemy, they are the attacker, they are that person in your mind.
 Well then all of a sudden you force your thinking to go to cancel all that, what are all the things that you love about that person, why are you grateful for them, where's your gratitude?
 And it's incredibly powerful to breaking down that victim mentality, fuel just toxic cycle.
 Yeah, you can't be a victim without a villain, there's always going to be a villain somewhere. And how have I responded when that's a struggle that you're experiencing?
 So when I'm not self-managing, well, their response is never terrible, it's not this enemy attack, it's not this, it's not a negative response.
 You know, there will be sometimes there will be historically you'll push in on the thing that we're talking about, but you see all the struggle with it and around it, and then we end up getting to the struggle.
 And there was a time in the last six or eight months, like when Heather and I were both struggling with something, we were quickly able to get to perspective on what we were struggling with as people.
 And then we were able to talk about it with the team and the team gets to learn and they get to see their leaders being vulnerable about it.
 And we're able to go right to, oh man, look at all the things that we did there, like that we're control struggles and selfishness and defensiveness and all these pieces that are just as we teach those surface of responses that are within you.
 And then they pop up. And this really, all this really drives to one of the things I wanted to talk about today was how belief system gets passed on.
 And again, I can make these linkages of because of what we're trying to do around here is to where does that come from is look at how that look at the behavior that I have that I can exhibit as a result of belief system lies, all things in root system.
 And so we're going to be left uneducated how could I go about living my life. Well, I look back and look at all of the years I lived not knowing the things that I now know.
 And I see why like in Mary Beth and my early years of our relationship and dating and engaged and the first guess one or two years of marriage.
 Looking back and reflecting on those struggles and looking at how I contributed to conflict and I'm like just checking boxes. So I'm like, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, that's all unchecked struggle.
 It's all unchecked belief system that's leading to those choices of how you're relating with your life. Let alone looking at how I would respond to people people pleasing approval seeking.
 I remember I was sitting on a Mexican restaurant. I can still picture as it was so emotional this thing that happened, especially for a high-eye people, please are like me, is I'd want this thing.
 I remember what it was, it was in college and like that in a lot of my class didn't know it and I was like, I want people to know it. And so I found a way to weave it and work it in to what I was saying with all of my friends sitting there and I wove it in but not so well because my high D friend and the class she turned to me and was like, and she just straight up called me out.
 I was a big check and it was major accountability because I knew what I was doing. I knew I was seeking that approval and that worth from people but I just couldn't resist the bait and I went for it.
 I had to look back at these things and reflect on seeing, look at yourself, look at why you were doing things like that and making those kinds of decisions because of your belief system and what you were taught.
 I was actually recognized that we're doing it. Even in the moment and it's best when you know it's coming. It's so funny to do what we do.
 It's once in a great while, you know you're about to say something because you're looking for worth shut up, just knock it down.
 But I think such a painful moment like that being called out like that is also one of the most powerful things. It's even more powerful if the person is like, "Hey, I do that too.
 I've experienced it. Instead of Joel, you're being silly instead of that being a, hey brother, listen. I see your struggling. I struggle with it too. How do we fix this struggle? What is this struggle?"
 I was like, "I'm not alone in this." I think that's what we think when somebody calls us out especially the high eyes, "Well I just got attacked."
 I was born across and getting some worth for people and I got attacked to the process. Now I'm really in pain. So, one huge failure.
 It's so funny, Joel. What you were just talking about being a high eye of myself. Gosh, I struggle with a lot of the same things that you were just describing right there.
 I was talking about that whole change piece and going into learning about what our beliefs are and how we pass this exam. Even for me, I think back to, you know, I've had some great leaders that I've worked for, I've had some leaders that aren't so great.
 One of the things, and here's a vulnerable point for me, one of the things I remember having a conversation with Chris LeCard, a couple of years ago, they're in the offices.
 I said, "Chris, you know what? You're one of the best leaders I've ever had. I want you to know that. Dude, I'm going to be real. I put you on a pedestal. He stopped me right there. Chris, you stopped me at that point and you walked me through what that really meant.
 I changed the way I looked at that from that point on. It changed the way I saw you instead of looking at you as somebody that I needed to get approval from and get acceptance from and wanted to make sure I didn't disappoint.
 I realized you were somebody who wanted to be on the same level with me. That you were somebody who wanted to go, "Hey, we're in this together."
 I changed my perspective a lot on that piece. I'll tell you, I'm going to jump back to my first job that I ever had. I worked at a paint and a plying piece.
 So you had like a paper hat or something? I did not have a paper hat. I had a lot of men. That would be so cute.
 They wouldn't make them big enough for my melon. But one of the things that I did, I worked at a paint and plying store and worked for a great friend of mine. He owned the place and so it was my first job at a high school between high school and college.
 I was working with summer and I was there about four weeks before I quit. I told him I sent him a letter about how bad of a job I thought he was doing running his business.
 I'm 18 years old. I had the audacity to do that. I'm your paper hat.
 What's funny is I actually found that letter that I sent him a couple weeks ago and I realized how wrong I was. I mean massively wrong.
 But I had the audacity to sit there and go, "Hey, you're not doing your business right this way, this way, this way, this way, this way, this way, this way, this way, this way."
 And so because of that, I'm not working for you anymore. Wow. I was like, "Okay, so I went on to college and I worked for a couple of other places then during college.
 I learned a little bit more about humility. I learned a little bit more about how to actually be a good team member and I just learned a little bit more about how business actually runs.
 And there was this incident that happened that was very eye-opening for me. And it was this thing that happened in November of 2008.
 I was in King Kun, Mexico, on Entry Leadership. And it was the first time I'd ever heard anybody talk about personality styles.
 And that right there began a journey for me of going way to second. What I have been taught about business, what I have learned about leadership, all of these things, all of my beliefs on these things were not accurate.
 They were things like you just talked about. There were things that we had learned from the people who had taught us. But it seemed like such common sense that I went way to second, hold up.
 I want to take this thing and go farther with it. There's more to this than just a personality style. Once I started learning about personality styles, I began to see things where I had messed up.
 I began to see my own immaturity in my own life, but I began to see where other people were struggling as leaders. I began to see this piece.
 And that journey for me is what led me to even go deeper. I went ahead and met on a high theoretical. So maybe I might have read a number of things then on personality styles and other things like that.
 But it took me on a journey to where I wanted to learn more about how does business really work, how do these things happen? And I remember sitting down with you a number of times going, "Hey, help me understand this. Hey, what me through this? What does this mean? Why do we do it this way?"
 Because I realized that my beliefs on what we did as a business owners as leaders was not right. It was not accurate. There were pieces that were great. There were pieces that were fantastic.
 But there are a lot of pieces that we're missing. And I needed to fill that gap in. And so understanding that I can change my beliefs.
 I don't have to be locked into, "Hey, this is the way we've always done stuff." And this is the way businesses run. And this is the way, you know, the experience I've had is this is the way things are going to be done.
 Realizing that I could grow in that, realizing that I could make those changes. And then just still off of gilcing, then realizing what I could do pass it on to other people.
 Learning that and being able to pass on that stuff. That's just huge for me to be able to recognize that piece and understand it doesn't stop. And I'm not done learning. I can go and tell you that. I am not learning about this.
 I still want to kill you learn more and more and more and more and pass on more and more and more and more and more.
 I think I love the humility of being able to look back and the vulnerability that we're all sharing here and being able to look back at just when we're stupid, thinking that we know we know.
 But the thing I wanted to touch on was the pedestal piece because too many people want to be on that pedestal, right? Too many people allow people to put them on that pedestal.
 And when I was at each rate, so not a whole heck of a lot older than you were back in those days in my early 20s, I learned very quickly because I started my leading like everybody else at a top me.
 But I learned very quickly that if I was the smartest person in the room, then nobody else was needed, right? And so if I was going to be this amazing guy, then what in the world did I need everybody else for?
 And it really quickly taught me, and by it, I mean God, God really quickly taught me you're no better than anybody else. You may be better at a thing, you may have different gifts and talents, but the way that God sees people, he's not a respect to our persons.
 So to put people on a pedestal in the first place, goes against his way of looking at us, right? We are supposed to be brothers and sisters, we're not supposed to, in by the way, a great thing to know is in the Hebrew, there's no word for hero, because you're not supposed to be like anybody else. You're supposed to be the best version of yourself, right?
 So for me that is so funny because whenever something like that has happened, like when you share that, I don't see you and I as any differently. I don't think about it that way. I think of, hey, this is us doing this.
 This is us going and making this thing happen. Now I do see my absolutely see my responsibilities as the owner of the business, as the CEO of the business and everything, but I look at that as a role responsibility, not as a, oh, well, I'm better.
 Because the funny thing is on the last person on the planet who would say I'm better, I know it was like, well, I probably suck way more than you do. So for me that pedestal piece is just something that we've got to recognize of how much it holds us back, because then it holds you back.
 If that's, you know, and I want to be cautious with this, it doesn't mean that we don't look at people with specific, you know, maybe we have somebody that's kind of a father figure or a mother figure in our life or somebody who's like an older brother, you know, plays that role in our life.
 There's nothing wrong with that. It's the, hey, this person is better than me. This person belongs in a higher place than me. This person, whatever.
 We do that on a consistent basis, and we don't recognize, hey, it's not fair to the person, although many people on pedestals want to be on pedestals, but it's not fair to for me, because I don't want to be there.
 That's the last thing I want, because if I'm, if I'm there, then you see me differently than I feel like you should see me, and God forbid for I take a second and think that I deserve to be on that pedestal, that's just what suck.
 But the bigger pieces that it holds us back as individuals, right?
 It keeps us from having a right view of the person, but it keeps us from having a right view of ourselves.
 Because what does putting a person on a pedestal say, I'm less than this person.
 Man, I'll make. Show me, biblically. Show me where God says anybody is less than somebody else.
 What it comes to the body of Christ, right? We are all, you know, according to our Messiah, we are all priests. He's our high priest.
 There is an equality that that comes with that. Some of us have different gifts. Some of us have different talents.
 I might have a different gift and talent than you have, but it doesn't make any of us better than anybody else.
 And I love what Paul says, don't say the trauma teen. Don't say the trauma policy team, you're not. There are no teams. There's Jesus.
 There's his team. There's Yeshua's team and that's it. So great stuff. Powerful. Powerful stuff. To share.
 So as I sit here and I like especially I listen to you guys and we talk through this and I think about everyone who's listening to this show.
 I think my encouragement to all of you all listening is, is don't settle. Go after education. Go after learning. Go after perspective.
 Especially when you recognize that man, I've got some things that are maybe wrong in my belief system or I've got a lot of behaviors and things that are going on.
 They just aren't right that I'm feeling stuck or in life or in leadership and business. I'm not sure what to do or how to lead people well.
 You will be surprised how much of that actually comes from your training and your from your belief system.
 And you know, I can personally attest to this. You know, in my 20s, we're so many of my reckless years and I can look back now and see how much of my belief system was driving a lot of bad decisions.
 And then I get into my 30s and I look at my decision making was getting better healthier, more mature. And it was so much of is because of the people I have in my life and because of the information that I was taking in.
 That was helping me become a better person. I mean, just better decision making all across my life.
 And I'm now I've been really feeling so grateful and blessed for so much fruit. But just blessing that's come and where I look back and say, man, if I hadn't hadn't had that outside perspective information and influence.
 I don't, I would not be where I'm at and personally my life today and my life is not devoid of struggle and difficulty. It's there. But it's I think just as I just, you know, put this out there.
 It's guys is go after information, go after perspective and if it's something with us and it's next civil life for a coaching just reach out and get information and choose to grow.
 Yeah. Well, and I'll add to that to not only just going after information but implementing, you know, I love to learn a lot of stuff.
 There's so much stuff that I have awaited way too long in my life actually implement.
 Yeah. And so not only learning like you said Joel, but now being able to go and take an implement and put it into practice. That's where the difference comes in.
 Yeah. We don't say it enough. We say it all the time and it's still not enough. This is a practice. This is a practice. It's practice. You must practice this stuff to get good at it.
 And here we have three of us being brought in if you want to jump in and share vulnerable stories. No. Okay.
 So we have the three of us sharing vulnerable stuff that we had we not done the practice and worked our butts off to get to a place.
 A to recognize it. B to use the tools to kick it in the teeth and see to make healthier decisions going forward. We wouldn't be able to do this show.
 Like we literally wouldn't be able to talk about this because we'd still be stuck in it.
 And I think that's the powerful piece is that you have to get educated.
 You have to implement it and then you have to recognize it's not happening tomorrow.
 It took me decades to get to a place of being caring that much guilt in my life.
 And it took me years to walk out a lot of it.
 And again, it's still something that pops its rear. It's ugly head up from time to time.
 But we not all busted our butts implemented and then practice the daylights out of it.
 We wouldn't have a show to share right now. So powerful stuff will folks.
 Hopefully this is helping you. We hope that this style of wrap up this pausing reflect is helpful.
 To be able to look at the things that we've discussed hopefully been listening to the last quarter's worth of episodes.
 It will make a heck of a lot more sense if you have.
 But even if you just take from today the understanding of what you can do to shift.
 What you can do to change your belief system.
 The first part of that being recognized how much of your decision making comes from your belief system.
 And if you've got some jacked up belief systems in there like pretty much every person walking the planet,
 then we got to do something about it. What is that thing going to be?
 Get that right education, implement the daylights out of it and practice practice practice practice.
 Use those tools.
 By far, seek your worth and God.
 Gentlemen, thank you for joining me today.
 Your welcome studio even if five video.
 Your words, good stuff, good stuff.
 Folks, as always take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]