 Part two of reorienting your financial success around what truly matters.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 We are continuing, Brian Alex is joining me again.
 One more time.
 One more time.
 In this studio, as we continue on with our discussion about finances,
 about reorienting your life, your ideas, your strategies, all that kind of
 stuff.
 Part one of this, if you got a chance to listen to this, was a lot of my story.
 A lot of different pieces about what I've experienced in life.
 And today we're continuing on with some of the how-toos or some of the, I don't
 know, Brian, you explained it.
 Let me ask you what I asked you last time.
 Hey, what are you doing here?
 What are you doing here?
 Get out of here.
 No, the idea that really around this episode, these two episodes now, is that so much
 of what we find.
 If you're looking for help with finances, it goes very quickly to the prescriptive.
 Do these things.
 XYZ and you're going to, you know, just mark them off.
 And there are some great, you know, financial piece of university.
 We can't talk about it enough.
 I've gone through probably eight times.
 I probably need at least another eight to ten, even facilitating it.
 You're learning things all the time.
 It hits you at a different place in your life.
 We can't push that enough because it works.
 But a lot of that in the course is prescriptive.
 Now, Dave unfolds his story just like Chris is unfolded his in the last episode.
 And we begin to talk a little bit of that the descriptive side of, well, what should my
 relationship with money be?
 What should it be like?
 And to what end?
 I mean, we talk about financial success.
 And even the title of these episodes is redefining financial success because so much of
 what we understand is just ticking the boxes and arriving at a certain end.
 And I want to really press into that here in this second part about, well, what is that
 end that we're, we're pressing into?
 And I know something you've said here recently, you've talked about money being the leverage
 in your decision making that helps you execute your mission well.
 And I love that that the money becomes a tool or an asset to help you achieve not financial success
 per se, but mission success and the things that God has called you to do.
 But we have to say again, there is a hierarchy here.
 There is a priority set of God and then people and then money.
 Yeah, absolutely.
 So we're going to talk about that right after this.
 Hey folks, a couple of years ago, I was visiting with a client and the CEO said to me,
 Chris, we're not going to hit our goal.
 I asked him what he meant.
 And he said, we're going to miss our three year revenue goal coming out of a strat plan by
 a few months.
 I didn't realize it at first that he was having a little fun with me by saying they were
 about to triple their company in less than three years.
 How freaking awesome is that.
 Folks, these are the kinds of results that businesses get by coming through our four-day strat
 plan events.
 On average, we find 2.1 million dollars worth of revenue in the next 12 months that the company
 was not planning on.
 The event is for all size businesses.
 If you're small, medium or large, it works for every single business because it's not industry
 specific.
 It's about gaining all the information about all the things inside of your business that are
 holding you back from success and then giving you a plan and a process on how to walk that
 out and be successful in your business.
 I discovered the things that are holding you back.
 It helps you get to all of those goals that you've been planning on for a long time.
 So if you're ready to get the perspective, you need to solve what's holding you and your
 business back so you can grow faster than you need a strat plan.
 To learn more, go to Chrissacordo.com/stratplan.
 That's Chrissacordo.com/stratplan.
 Alright, so we are back.
 I want us to just pick up right there.
 Let's unpack how is money now leverage for you and to what end?
 So let me go back to something that you said in the opening package there about how the very
 lengthy old-fashioned.
 It was a fantastic one.
 I love it.
 What's your relationship with money be?
 This is so much of what you heard on the first episode if you listen to the first, if you
 didn't listen to it, go back and listen to it and then come back to this.
 I think that's just wise.
 We have such a relationship with money because of worth.
 Worth in man.
 Worth in man's opinion.
 Worth identity in what I have, what I own, what I'm accomplishing.
 All of that stuff, we talked a lot about Solomon about how going after all of these things
 is like chasing the one that's pure vain, it's pure vanity.
 To do so, you can't possibly capture the wind, it's stupid.
 What are we trying to capture?
 Well, we preach that that's a good thing to do.
 Go do you, go make you amazing, go stand on the mount top and scream it everybody who you
 are and what you are and why you're important.
 All that stuff is just pure vanity.
 Without a phenomenal relationship with God and by that I mean an actual legitimate relationship
 understanding, you know his words, you understand what he expects of you, what he desires
 from you, understand the consequences you're going to get when you're being obedient.
 And when he's blessing you, I mean, yes, two ways.
 All of that stuff without knowing that, what do you have?
 What you can produce?
 What is Solomon saying?
 Guess what?
 What you can produce is not enough.
 I mean, and again, he had all of the resources available to, I mean, probably in the history
 of mankind.
 Yes, he had the most capacity, resource ability, time on his hands, ruler of kingdoms.
 And even at that period in his life as he exhausted, he investigated every possible thing
 that he could delight himself with or things he could accumulate.
 And I think this is really instructive for us because we buy into this lie all the time.
 Will if I just have more, whatever that is, then I'll be happy.
 Then I'll be, you know, it'll be different.
 And I'll feel better and I'll be a better person and I'll find success.
 But even I think what's instructive for us is even if we had the ability to go and exhaust
 every line or every road that we want to go down of fame, success, wealth, you know, capacity,
 whatever Solomon is indicative of the fact that it's still meaningless if it's only
 an end to itself.
 Is it not ridiculous how we are?
 That we have the example of Solomon.
 So, you know, for me, one of the things that I praise got about is that I've been able to
 watch people my whole life and make decisions not to do the things that caused them pain.
 I have watched leader after leader, person after person, go after something, get hurt in the
 process and I go, ooh, don't do that.
 Right.
 There's now, keep in mind, I've done plenty of stupid on my own.
 Well, and I have to interject.
 This is where the office again is very helpful for us because Dwight Schroed is famous for
 saying that if I know that a stupid person would do that, I do not do that thing.
 That is wisdom.
 That is wisdom.
 That is wisdom right there.
 There you go.
 So here's the thing, we look at the wisest man to potentially live, right?
 Possibly live, not potentially live.
 He did live.
 He did land.
 We do that.
 And yet he went after the very stuff that we can convincing ourselves we should do.
 And we have the great example of how much pain it caused him, right?
 And all of the stuff he literally sat down and penned don't do this.
 Only a stupid person.
 Only a stupid person.
 First Dwight, right?
 Now go and man, I'll talk to all of you.
 It was wise.
 But apparently he was stupid.
 The wisest guy went after the things of the world.
 The wisest guy.
 And then he sat down and he wrote to us saying don't be stupid about this.
 Recognize the vanity.
 So even if you're why Solomon wasn't stupid, he was vain.
 He was focused on the things of himself, not the things of God.
 This is what he's telling us.
 As long as you're, you could be an incredibly smart, oh well I know how to handle money
 Chris.
 Oh well I know what I'm doing.
 Oh I know.
 Excuse me, back in the late 90s, you know I came out of E-Trade.
 I thought I really understood money.
 Even though I was a day trader for a little bit of time and lost money that was stupid.
 Now that is stupid.
 You know I thought I knew everything.
 And then man just smacked upside that.
 Nope, here's some.
 Yeah we're talking about hard issues.
 That's exactly.
 The key is is that we will still take a look at what Solomon wrote to us, telling us.
 Don't be vain.
 Don't be focused on you.
 Be focused on God because when you're focused on you I promise you God's going to bring
 pain.
 And we go, hey that's a great story.
 Look at that.
 Well, poor Solomon, that guy really scared up didn't he?
 But I'm not going to, because I've got a better plan.
 And then we chase after the wind just like he did.
 Just like he did.
 And unfortunately you know this is God's ways of doing things or at least a God pattern.
 Usually it takes maturity in years.
 It takes age and maturity for us to get to a place of going, wow I really have been in
 it.
 This has been kind of stupid.
 I need to focus on what's right.
 So the key is to understand when it comes to relationship with money we don't understand
 how a moral money is and how money doesn't make us worthy.
 Only God makes us worthy.
 So answering the question, what's that relationship with money be?
 Think of it as a shovel.
 Think of it as a wrench.
 Think of it as a drill.
 It's a tool to accomplish things with.
 Having more tools doesn't make me a better, you know, brick layer.
 Unless you're really into crafts and you start grunting like to mal and or something.
 Well, that's not because yes.
 Absolutely.
 It's because I have a lot of tools.
 It doesn't make me a better version.
 It means I have tools I can use, right?
 So yeah, wow.
 That's a powerful analogy of how we accumulate things to give us leverage.
 And I wonder if there are control issues that go into that whole kind of heart relationship
 with money.
 We want those resources so that we can feel in control.
 We can feel powerful, but we're so tied when our worth and our value that as soon as something
 happens with those tools.
 Wow.
 Yeah.
 We just think.
 And then all of a sudden we don't have enough tools.
 And then we're not good enough.
 And then we're not worthy enough.
 And we are completely missing out on how we should be looking at money.
 Nobody goes well.
 I'm going to assume nobody.
 Let me just say most people, let me be conservative here.
 Most people don't walk into their garage and look at the tools on a wall or on a bench
 or in a tool chest and go, I am so worthy.
 Behold, my king.
 Look at me.
 Look at me.
 I am amazing.
 The graphic artist doesn't go in and look at his computer that has all kinds of abilities
 and go.
 I'm phenomenal.
 Right?
 It's not the tool doesn't make you phenomenal.
 It doesn't make you more worthy.
 Sometimes it just makes you a tool.
 Yes.
 Sometimes tools just make you a tool.
 If you know how to use the money and you have a right perspective in life, your worth
 is not in money, your worth is not in stuff, your worth is not in men's opinion, your worth
 is not in how much you own, how much you accomplish, that is not your worth.
 Your worth is in what God says.
 Then you can focus on God's will and purposes for your life instead of your will and purposes.
 What a Solomon saying.
 Quit being so vain.
 Quit being so stuck on you.
 Quit being so focused on yourself.
 It's not about you going and making this your world.
 It's not about you going and building an empire to yourself.
 It's not about you going and collecting a whole bunch of stuff.
 It's just not.
 You're here for a short period of time and you're transitioning and you're going to want
 to do places.
 If you're going to the place with God, then guess what.
 Go ahead and use this life to set that one up.
 Focus on his will and purposes.
 Go after that.
 Well, Chris, I'm a business owner who is going to the concrete.
 We just poor concrete.
 Well, are you helping people by doing that?
 I don't think so.
 What do you do with that concrete?
 You don't put it in a hole for 40 hours a week.
 No, we build driveways and backpatties.
 What do people do on the back patio?
 I don't know.
 They have family barbecues and they spend time together.
 Great.
 So you're helping people to spend time as a family.
 Now be more intentional about it.
 Utilize the tool to go change life.
 Do it in honoring God.
 Do it in worship and God in the process.
 Utilize it.
 So use that relationship with money as a tool for you to use.
 Not your worth.
 Not your identity.
 When you do that, then you can do like us.
 God is our number one motivating factor.
 Changing lives is our number two motivating factor.
 Profit, not money, but profit.
 We can make tons of money in this business.
 But if we're in the negative, it doesn't matter.
 But we have to be profitable to keep the doors open and pay everybody to do what they're
 doing.
 Right?
 So that is that best number three.
 Why?
 Because when money is number one, that will not your motivating factor.
 Everything is handcuffed to it.
 God, your number one motivating factor.
 You handcuff yourself to God.
 You emotionally attach yourself to God.
 And it changes the decisions you make with those tools.
 So I've made a lot of money in life.
 I have plenty of tools to use.
 My life is walking that out going, how do I utilize this tool for God?
 What do I do now?
 Building, we're working on what we haven't talked about that.
 But I think there's some stuff on our Facebook.
 And I'm working on it.
 We call it the Ridge at Lieber's Creek.
 I haven't seen you in like a week.
 I don't think yes.
 We've been in a bus thinking a whole lot of stuff up there trying to just get power and things
 up to this place.
 We've got this land that we want to make it an even more special life change environment for
 people to come into next to the life or a trap plan or our events and all that.
 So we're working on that.
 Oh my gosh.
 We could be working on building an empire to ourselves.
 We could be working on a vacation home somewhere.
 We could be working on putting ourselves in a place.
 I don't know.
 That separates us from everybody else.
 I mean, we talk about that all the time here that if our pursuit and this is internal dialogue
 on our team, if our pursuit as a team was for the revenue, our business would look dramatically
 different.
 Oh, it's so different.
 Because it is not the defining element.
 The defining element is God obedience to him is commandments what he does and obeying him and serving
 him loving all of that, which then filters two people naturally it goes to affecting other
 people's lives and a positive way.
 And then like you say, that third thing down.
 But just like we said in the first episode, the farther you get down on that list, that one
 that's below serves what's above.
 And so that tool of money is a tool to love on and change people, which again is part of
 our worship to God in the highest position.
 Absolutely.
 Absolutely.
 When you can get that right perspective, and I'm going to say it's that right perspective
 because it's very biblical.
 What does God tell you?
 Put me first, put me first.
 I own you, recognize that you are something I possess, recognize that if you go and do
 your own thing, it's going to hurt like crazy, recognize that when you have that right perspective
 of God first, then you can make different decisions with every tool and resource that he's
 given you, not just the money, but the people, the family, your kids, the cars that you
 own, the house that you own, the building, whatever it is, you can change all of that and make
 better decisions with those.
 Yes.
 I think that we're reiterating again that what we're talking about is not just business, redefining
 financial success affects the people like me, the individual or the family out there,
 I have to assess that all the time for myself personally.
 And I'm saying, okay, I'm spending this money.
 Why am I directing my money, my funds, my resources, these tools in this direction?
 And I'm constantly trying to assess am I just serving myself, am I seeking entertainment or
 happiness or whatever by the things that I choose to use my money on.
 And so when we're talking about financial success here, it's not just that accumulation, but
 it's really the management of the resources that God puts into our hands and at the end of
 the day, it comes back to its leverage in the decision making that help to serve the mission.
 If you look at, so we teach around here, mission is your purpose for existence.
 So you should have a personal mission.
 You should have a business mission.
 You should have a career mission, a family mission, a spiritual mission.
 The mission is your purpose for existence.
 So when it comes to your business, you have to ask yourself, why what is our purpose for
 existing?
 Most business owners don't know.
 They wrote down a mission statement at some point, but they can't read it off.
 They don't remember.
 They haven't memorized it.
 And Ron had a mission statement as well.
 They did have a mission statement as well.
 Just saying it's not always connected with the action.
 Yes, that's exactly it.
 It didn't actually work out the way that they said it was a work I got or at least what
 they said they wanted to be.
 This possible to be way off.
 Yeah, it is very possible to be way off.
 Also don't make CFO CEOs anyway.
 That's just like lesson.
 So here's the deal that have to report to a board that Board of Directors or investors.
 So here's the deal.
 When you look at your purpose.
 Now ours is worshiping God by loving people and guiding individuals or organizations to greater
 perspective.
 We say it all the time.
 People always say you change our lives.
 We always say no.
 We get you to the greatest perspective.
 You have to choose to utilize that perspective and change our life.
 We can't change your life.
 We can only get you to that perspective.
 But our goal is to get that perspective to people and help them.
 But it starts off by worshiping God.
 And then it goes to loving people.
 Right?
 We have this business, this opportunity, this money, these tools, these certificates of appreciation
 is rabbi lapin would call it to do something with.
 We could take it home.
 For us we like to do profit sharing and share with the team.
 Thank you, by the way.
 You're absolutely welcome.
 But we also pour a ton of it back into the business.
 Now one of the things we do, we don't suggest this to a lot of people unless God's
 called you to do this.
 We trade a lot of time for money.
 So for myself, a lot of what I spend time doing is spending time with clients.
 It's spending time doing this right here.
 It's coaching.
 It's doing things of helping people one-on-one or with a leadership team.
 We have a strap plan that starts next week.
 You know, all these things that we do, we spend time.
 So we're trading time for money.
 We get paid for our time.
 That is not the world's best business model.
 And the reason why is because it's not very scalable.
 So if you're looking at a few of the lens of men, people all the time disagree with our way
 of doing things.
 Because we're not scaling it like crazy.
 Doesn't matter.
 God's called us to do these things and until he changes that we're doing it.
 Now, we're also working on, but with not great vigor, we're working on other things that
 will be able to run without me being a part of it, without jolving, without Heather being a part
 of it.
 So we're working on those things.
 But it's just not the world's greatest priority because money is not the greatest priority for
 us.
 We are going to get a book out at some point.
 At some point, I actually wrote one, I had to go back and redo it.
 And apparently it was too high level.
 So I've got to go back through it and make a little bit different.
 People like, "Man, you really got deep very quick."
 Oh, sorry.
 So, but the point being is we have all of these resources to be able to take it home and
 in effect our own lives, or we can pour back into the business.
 So come one COVID came around.
 That great political disease.
 That came around.
 When that happened, we knew very quickly the areas that if we had to cut so we didn't
 lay a single person off, we kept operating the same as always.
 We just shifted people around.
 We had to move so you being one of those people, which was great because we discovered other
 fantastic gifts and talents that you have by making some shifts.
 We're so people, hey, listen, you're doing this over here.
 We need you over here.
 Never laid a person off continued rocking, right?
 But we knew the whole time.
 When I say, "We," I mean, the leadership team, we knew that if we needed to cut stuff,
 we knew exactly where we would cut.
 Because we have plenty of things where we spend a lot of money to help people.
 And if we got into a situation where we were not being profitable, then we had plenty of money
 in our emergency fund.
 We had plenty of money to take care of things.
 And we dipped down for, well, we actually took a kick in the teeth because the one that happened,
 we weren't able to do our big live public event that praise God we were able to do this
 here.
 So we had to do that online, which changed a lot of stuff.
 So we took a big kick in the teeth.
 But by the time we got to the end of the year, we were back to normal, back to work, we were,
 which was just such a God blessing.
 We knew that if it continued to be negative, that we would start removing things that we've
 been pouring money into to help people that aren't as profitable that we could change.
 Now, if I'm teaching somebody just business work, I'm saying remove those things anyways because
 that's not helping you achieve your goal.
 If your goal is to be highly profitable, then remove the things that aren't profitable.
 If you're doing this as a calling to God, you have to know that's what's your purpose,
 what's your mission for us, the mission is God, people.
 Right?
 So by doing so, we leverage the dollars that come in.
 We'll pay us money, we do amazing events, we have all kinds of great stuff going on, and then
 I turn around and pour a ton of that back into the business.
 Why?
 Because I want to change more lives.
 The more we can change lives, the more we can affect people.
 So it becomes the leverage for our purpose or as you're pointing at our mission.
 The tool gives us the ability to continue on with the mission.
 Well, we're not done.
 It's continuing to grow our mission.
 The next piece of that, as we see, is creating this environment that we call the rich,
 goats, chickens, goats, chickens, farm, bees, all kinds of stuff.
 The funny thing is that there are pieces.
 So we have picked up a bunch of land that we're going to build an event space.
 We're hopefully going to be able to build, we're trying to get all this approved by the county,
 to be able to build places for people to stay.
 When you come for next level, if you come here, you go to stay to hotel.
 This is more like a retreat.
 So you're coming in and then you get to go be in nature when you're working on your discussions
 with God, when you're working on your homework on what brings me joy.
 You're able to walk around when people come in through a strap plan and we take a break,
 you can go and spend time and just spend time with God or spend time soaking up the nature.
 But then you also don't have to leave the property.
 You can just stay right there and as you're going through your event.
 As we do our bigger events, our quarterly retreats, our big public event, the ability to come
 here will come there and experience so much more healing processes that's not in a hotel
 environment.
 It's not in a corporate environment.
 It's in an environment and people love this building here so much once they get inside because
 it's not set up like an office space.
 It's set up like a warm, cozy, large home.
 Right with an event space that allows you to not be focused on a corporate setting any of that.
 So that's the next purpose for us as we see it is that we're putting things in place
 for people to have an even bigger life change.
 Our hope is that we'll be able to bring in trouble to youth, that we'll be able to bring in
 families that are struggling with things.
 If we need to shelter people from bad situations, whatever God says for us to do, that's
 our goal.
 But we could also just take the money home and build us a big all-hunk in house and buy more
 cars and try and impress man at a stop light.
 If money were at the top.
 If money were at the top, you know, go on big vacations, do all that stuff and that's just
 not it.
 So we're using it to leverage our purpose.
 I love it.
 We probably need to take a break.
 I'm a run to the breast room.
 Okay, and I'll be right back.
 Don't take the microphone in there with me.
 But when we come back, I want to get down into some really practical things for employers
 employees, parents, teens, college students, let's flesh this out on a practical level and talk
 about how it works in the real world.
 Fantastic.
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here.
 I'm the Vice President of Leadership Development on Chris's team and I oversee our next
 level mastermind business coaching program.
 Most business owners and leaders like a clear path to succeed in business.
 The question whether they're making the right decisions, if they're focusing on the
 right things to really grow their business, if this is you, you need a coach in your life.
 Coaches help you make better decisions, navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively, and grow
 your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue and
 an average of 138% increase in net profit and regain hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3.5 years simply because of the results they get.
 So if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been
 wanting, then visit ChrisCarto.com/mastermind.
 Again, ChrisCarto.com/mastermind today.
 And we're back.
 Well, she shut was a great break.
 Much needed.
 I'm very grateful to be back in a little different frame of mind.
 Oh, literally we did not leave their own.
 We've just been paying attention to the man behind the curtain.
 It's all smoke and mirrors people.
 Smoke and mirrors.
 But I don't know we are back.
 Okay, so I mentioned a few moments ago that a lot of this hits for me personally, I'm
 constantly having to reexamine my heart condition my heart connection with money.
 ChrisCarto, that you do, right?
 Yeah, I mean, I've hit rock bottom a couple times.
 Don't mind.
 And each time, you know, God just, okay, you know, it's that thump.
 Like you were talking about on the first episode of thump every now and then.
 And yeah, you come.
 You come to terms with, all right, where am I priorities at?
 And so, you know, let's make this more practical.
 A couple of questions I'm going to throw out at you.
 How can our listeners examine the relationship with money, all right?
 So first one, how much of a trigger is your bank state?
 Oh, my goodness.
 I believe it was Kovie.
 I believe it was Stephen Kovie who said, if I have your checkbook and your date timer, which
 you know, would be your schedule, your calendar, then I can tell you what your priorities are.
 I believe it was Kovie.
 Your bank statement, if you actually ever looked at it, which I believe most people never do.
 And there's some reasons I think, I mean, we could go deep dive here real quick on it could
 be fear.
 No, totally.
 Because of worth or fear of what's not there in the bank statement, I mean, it could
 be lots of different reasons and just that laziness of not wanting to be in the numbers because
 of all the feelings that brings up all of that kind of thing.
 Yeah, well, if you actually sat down and printed out because you probably get it digitally
 nowadays, but took a look at your bank statement, it would tell you your priorities.
 Where is the money going?
 Is it going to credit cards?
 Is it going to clothes?
 Is it going to Nick Nax in your house?
 Is it going to car payments?
 Is it, you know, where is that money being spent?
 It will tell you a lot about your priorities when it comes to money.
 So yeah, it should be a trigger for you to go, oh, good night.
 So one of the things with, you know, with financial peace and diversity back in the days when
 I would coach people on, here's what I want you to know.
 I have friends, relatives, or just somebody had me, you know, we get into talking about
 finances.
 What I want you to do before you sit down and do a budget, I want you to take, if you spend,
 hey, I don't care if you buy gum, get a receipt.
 Every single thing you spend money on, get a receipt for it, your mortgage print that out.
 Whatever it is, get a receipt.
 And at the end of 30 days, lay it out on your kitchen table and categories and, you know,
 you will be sick at where you spend money.
 This is where my values are.
 Exactly.
 My priorities.
 Yeah, and even so you'll see the things that you value, but then you'll also see how much
 you don't value the tool money when you realize that you spent $75 at Starbucks.
 And you're just like, did I really want to invest in that way?
 Yeah.
 When you start looking at the areas that you, you know, you'll be sick at the stuff that really
 are your values because you can see that's where you spend money.
 That's a priority.
 Let me say that way.
 And then the lack of priority where you spend money on things that you just lost your
 tool.
 Yeah.
 You know, you, and again, to spend an insane amount of money on coffee and you don't have money.
 And you get to the end of the month and there's not money, to spend an insane amount of
 money on clothes or whatever it is.
 I don't care if it's the, you know, the convenience store, the gas station.
 When you dump a bunch of money in those areas, you're letting go of your opportunities.
 Yeah.
 Because you're letting go of your tool to leverage your mission.
 You're putting other opportunities in place in that queue and you're pushing those other
 options to the back.
 Exactly.
 It's like the horrible advice that some accountants give people, go spent, you, you've got
 extra net profit, go buy something.
 You know, go spend money on something.
 Well, no, it's okay if you need the thing, right?
 But I know so many people who take tax credits, you know, tax advantage by going and spending
 money on stuff that they wouldn't normally you've spent that money on.
 You know, you, well, you need a brand new $700 copier.
 Do I really?
 Well, it's going to give you tax break.
 Yeah, but it's only a, you know, a third of that that I'm getting a tax break on.
 What if I just took the money home instead?
 Or if I used it on something else?
 Yeah.
 So yes, it's definitely a trigger.
 If you look at your bank statement whether it's your personal bank statement or your business
 bank statement, which I'm in every single month, that will tell you where your priorities
 are.
 Yeah.
 And just if that's you, if you're that business owner and you are hesitant or you feel cautious
 or there's some anxiety or fear with looking into your numbers, go back and listen to episode
 for 16 leading by the numbers.
 We did that that came out in May and get into that episode because we really hit that head
 on about why you as a business owner as a business leader need to be in your numbers every day.
 And that goes, you know, it goes obviously on the other side here with personal finances.
 If you are shying away from opening those bills, from getting into your, you know, your bank statements
 and actually seeing where your money is going and you having a plan for your money, what
 are we going to happen if we don't have a plan for a money?
 Our money has a plan for us.
 So leave us.
 To leave us and to go into someone else's hands who will manage it.
 Right.
 Okay.
 Let's talk about this is a big heart issue.
 There's like this huge string right here.
 Do you use or abuse money or credit to satisfy yourself?
 What is this telling us about our relationship with money?
 Yeah.
 So there's so many surface level responses that we discover in next level life.
 I mean there is hundreds of them that we talk about, but one of those things is emotional
 spending.
 Again, this is kind of why do we emotionally spend?
 Because we're losing worth.
 We're struggling with control.
 We're telling ourselves that if I go spend this money on this thing, I will be happy.
 It's the if then.
 If I buy this pair of shoes, then I'll be happy.
 It's solving a loop.
 It's an incentive.
 That's exactly it.
 And it's truth.
 You are happy because you chose a moment.
 Yeah.
 For five minutes.
 What is happiness?
 And happiness.
 And it's so hard to get this pounded into people's heads.
 Happiness is a choice.
 It is not something that just happens through osmosis.
 You have to choose to be happy.
 So then you make a purchase and you choose in that moment that you're happy.
 And then five minutes later you're like, well.
 What's that?
 Now what?
 You know, now I spent that one.
 Oh, that wound is still there.
 It's still, it's, you know, there's a million things.
 And we've discussed Solomon already.
 But there's a million things that we can do this with whether it's alcohol or whether it's,
 you know, just entertainment and pleasure seeking, whether it's, you know, other people's
 estimation of us and giving us that affirmation that we feel like we need.
 All of these things are trying to address those wounds.
 And again, that's why, you know, shameless plug here for next level of life.
 That's why we need to discover where are those wounds and what are we doing about them so
 that we don't continue this cycle of abusing money and credit in order to satisfy that
 longing that's in.
 Yeah, absolutely.
 Absolutely.
 So yeah, that is a big issue.
 If you're using money to satisfy yourself, then once again, and it's not saying you can't
 go on a trip, it's not saying that you can't buy something nice.
 It's not saying that at all.
 It's saying that if you are misusing the tool for your own worth, then that's a big issue.
 I'm thinking about going back home to Sicily.
 Sicily has these really old or Nate wooden carts that these really dressed up ponies pull
 around town.
 You know, they, they trick them out.
 I mean, it's like you're in the hood and, you know, it's like bouncing up and down the street
 or the shop and the music coming out.
 I mean, they are tricked out.
 These, these old wooden carts that they used to sell fruits and vegetables on nowadays,
 it's, it's just a cart.
 And it's on parade with a really, literally a prancing pony through the streets.
 And it always comes to me this, you know, the analogy of putting the cart in front of
 the horse and how ridiculous that would be.
 But let's talk about how do I know if I'm serving money or money is serving me?
 What are some indicators here that I'm putting the cart in front of the horse?
 If you've tricked out a vegetable cart, indication one, this, you might be a Sicilian redneck.
 Think about this for a second.
 What is the purpose?
 That's so funny. I've never heard that. You've never shared that.
 I've never, I've never known that.
 What's the purpose of tricking out a cart and putting it on a prancing pony and running it through
 the streets?
 Man's opinion.
 The purpose is that I've convinced myself, man is going to look at my cart and think, wow,
 Chris in the cart.
 That Sicilian's amazing right there.
 Look at that guy.
 How stupid.
 How ridiculous.
 Because now I have abused the tool that I had in front of me to try and garner appreciation
 from man and let's say 50 guys down the street think I'm amazing.
 For how long?
 Five minutes.
 So the next cart comes along.
 That's it.
 So now I've wasted my time.
 I've wasted my resources.
 My time, my energy, my money, my cart, my horse.
 I'm trying to get the opinions of men, of people, humans to say that I'm something spectacular.
 So I grow my worth.
 A colossal abuse.
 What just a stupid waste.
 That is something for us here in a Western culture.
 And if European and Western culture that we don't get or in a Middle Eastern culture, they
 look at function over form.
 So if you were to say, so let me, all right, here is a pen, Brian, for all the people who
 can't see this pen, would you describe it?
 That is a red pen with chrome accents.
 Has the point main group written on it?
 And it's lovely.
 It's lovely.
 Yeah.
 All right.
 So you just described the how it looks.
 The form.
 What they would say in the Middle East is that's something that I used to transfer my thoughts
 onto a piece of paper, the function.
 And the reason why that's important is for us to understand if we're going after function,
 then we recognize the tool that is money for going after form, then we recognize man's
 opinion of money.
 And so that is a terrible abuse because what we could be doing is pouring that into something
 else.
 And again, for believers, it should be pouring it into something that's glorifying God.
 How are you changing lives with this tricked outcart?
 How am I changing lives if I spend money on a fancy car to impress somebody to stop like
 it?
 I'm just not.
 And again, I mean, just to dig a little bit, you have had some nice cars.
 I have driven many of those nice cars and lived in your nice house.
 I mean, I've experienced that.
 But again, we're not talking about it.
 It's not wrong to have nice things.
 It's how we used to say when nice things have you.
 And so learning to look at those indications of, okay, why am I making this purchase?
 What is this going to do for me?
 What is this going to serve?
 Does it serve something greater than just me and filling that void and addressing that inner
 wound?
 I mean, there's gotta be these little flags that start waving when we're about to make a purchase
 that is we're really serving money in the end and not it serving us in the mission that we're
 called to.
 And just to clarify, there's things that I don't own anymore.
 Then I will never spend money on ever again, just because of being in a different place
 of going, that was a colossal waste of my tool.
 That I can't.
 And it's not to say that I haven't used those things to try and bless people, but my gosh,
 there's so much easier ways.
 There's so many better ways.
 Yeah.
 So to find out whether or not you're serving money, ask yourself the question, what is the intended
 result of the thing I'm spending money on, the things.
 If you're spending money on a house that's just ridiculously big, why?
 What's the purpose?
 Maybe there's a good reason there.
 But it could be your own vanity and ego and all of that and that needs to be assessed.
 So here's something that what Jesus says when he's talking to the rich and ruler.
 And we keep coming back to that, you know, we talked about it in the devotional that if you
 want to look it up, it's Mark chapter 10 versus 17 through 27.
 And I'm not sure if it's in Mark or if it's in Luke.
 So there's three parallels, Matthew Mark and Luke on the same story.
 But in one of the stories when the disciples are like, you know, hey, if the rich man can't
 get into heaven, who can be saved and Jesus shares with them, those who will give up the
 things of this or not, I'm paraphrasing them as I'm speaking, I'm kind of exegeting this
 in what Jesus is saying.
 If you will give up the things of the world that you hold so dearly that are so valuable
 to you, the stuff, the things, man's approval, man's appreciation, man's opinion, money,
 all the stuff.
 If you will give that up here for me, if you will give it up here for me, take verse the
 kingdom, sing first the kingdom, then I will give you a hundred times more in the kingdom.
 Now let's go back to don't do what the stupid person does.
 Was it, you know, what you're sharing the white?
 How ridiculous is it of us to not recognize that by focusing on gaining personal stuff here
 on earth, we are holding back one hundred times more in heaven.
 Now, I've done the calculations.
 The amount of time I can live here is considerably less than the amount of time in eternity.
 It's not a difficult calculation.
 It's an eternity.
 So I am literally getting my rewards here by focusing on what I get here.
 But if I focus on God and I shift my priorities to what he wants and I make him the most important
 thing, then he promises me a hundred times more of than what I gave up.
 That's a lot.
 If you think about it in a lifetime, and on top of that, there's another thing that he promises
 and that's persecution.
 Well, unfortunately, in a Western Christian belief system, we think persecution is bad.
 What we miss the disciples saying is the apostle saying is that persecution is God saying that
 he's blessing us because we're able to handle the persecution or we're worthy of the persecution
 and that there's blessing that comes from having been persecuted.
 So when you break it all down, the more time I spend focusing on gaining and growing here
 on earth for my own personal well-being, for my own satisfaction to serve myself, that I'm actually
 doing a disservice to my eternity by doing so.
 So that makes sense?
 Yeah, absolutely.
 I think it's just an important thing when it comes to recognizing who my serving.
 God or am I serving myself, man am I serving money?
 Right.
 Well, these are really good.
 We're coming to the end of our time.
 I want to conclude by just pushing some pieces to different categories.
 We've talked about redefining financial success.
 I want to look at in the business place, but I also want to look at home and talk about parents
 with small children and with teens and college students.
 So let's look just categorically and we're going to wrap this up so that we can be
 that we've at least touched on these other parts.
 But for employers, obviously you want to be able to compensate your employees in a competitive
 way and a great way.
 At the same time, we also know, on the other hand, the kind of experience that we're getting
 in the workplace, what we're learning here, all of that, and being part of a smaller
 company that has so much potential.
 I mean, there are, this is an awesome opportunity, an employment opportunity.
 So I know that for a lot of business owners out there, there's this tension that exists.
 And they may be pull on one side or to the other.
 So how do you deal with that?
 How do you rationalize there and look at in the context of what we're saying here, financial
 success, how should we be thinking as business leaders and business owners about how we're compensating
 the people that are called to our business and to help us on our mission?
 We're going to save the ease of the world into a third episode on this one.
 Any questions at the end?
 There's so many, man, when you ask that question, there's so many different things that
 come to mind. First off is understand that the money that you have to pay somebody is a tool
 and a resource, use it wisely, right?
 So don't hire somebody because you like them, definitely hire somebody you like.
 But I only hire people I hate.
 That way I really make sure I'm getting the best out of my money.
 I'm like every time.
 Make sure that you're hiring somebody who's right for the role, right?
 Make sure that you're offering a position.
 There's so many people out there that believe that they should get paid a lot of money because
 they breathe that they exist.
 Offer an opportunity for somebody to come and get their life changed by working at your
 business, right?
 Offer an opportunity for somebody to come and bust it with accountability, with a strategy,
 with care, raise, with KPIs, put all the things in place.
 So the money that you're spending is being well used.
 I think that's vitally important.
 I think too many people are like, I just need a warm seat, warm button to seat and they
 will hire people or they don't do their due diligence on the interview process and then
 they spend 30 and I have done this myself.
 They'll spend three to six months money on somebody only to find out that they are a colossal
 mistake.
 Wrong but in the wrong seat.
 Yeah, they're butts wrong.
 The seats wrong.
 There's a lot of places we could go with that.
 So if you do your due diligence on the front side, we just had the next level leadership
 live event a couple of months ago and one of the things we taught is all of those hiring
 processes to make sure that you're getting the right person.
 Instead of going hiring three people and hiring the person that smiled the most, right?
 You don't want to lose that resource that you have.
 The other piece is what do you have?
 Do you have plenty of resources to hire more people and continue the mission or the purpose?
 Or you just take in everything home.
 I mean, things to think about, right?
 For us, we're constantly looking at, we spend more money on more people.
 If we can hire more people, can we change more luck, can we affect more lives?
 Can we worship God, more in and help more people change their lives?
 That's always a big focus for us.
 Whenever we're having extra cash but on top of that, I work and this is just us.
 I'm not saying everybody needs to do this but it is huge for me to pay out profit sharing.
 That is something that I love to do because it's going above and beyond having somebody
 just being a seat.
 Saying for me, I believe it's communicating how much I appreciate the team beyond just the paycheck.
 Yeah, not what was agreed upon contractually.
 You don't have to do it.
 You do it out of the goodness of your own heart.
 The overflow of what's come in but it's a way that you're communicating just like you said.
 I appreciate the fact that we have a team that is here and called and on mission together.
 We're heading for the same purpose. We're worshiping God together by doing what we do as a team.
 Yeah, absolutely.
 And then the other piece when it comes to the compensation, I mean, I could literally talk on this
 all day long.
 When it comes to compensation, many times business owners want to get the cheapest but in the seat.
 Man, that just sounds so wrong.
 What would it be able to pay somebody a low price to get in and do the job?
 You have to ask yourself the question, is that going to accomplish the thing you're trying to accomplish?
 If you don't have an option, then sometimes in my early days, I could only afford this seat but.
 I was your first hire here.
 Oh, yeah, but I mean, I mean, way decades ago, right?
 Yeah, you're my first cheap buddy. I just had to pay you in wine. That was easy.
 Great postom. We didn't. We didn't want to go back a little bit.
 We always say this business started with me and Brian with a couple of lots of bottle wine and some great food on my back.
 But in my early days, when I'm, you know, she's when I started decades ago with Dave gave me an opportunity to run a business and he would share it with me, right?
 And so, I mean, there wasn't money. I took such a huge pay cut and there just wasn't money and I had to make decisions on.
 I need a butt in the seat, but I can only afford this. And so here's what I can pay for that role.
 That's where you are. That's where you are. But if that's not, then make the smart decision. What's the right thing?
 Don't overdo it. Don't go ballistic and hire the person who's like, well, I'm worth $90,000.
 And you need a $40,000 person in the role. Don't make that bad choice.
 Higher wisely. Ask yourself, what level do we need here? Let's go after that level, right?
 If it has to be held to the amount of money that you have, great focus on that. But if money is not the bigger object, then focus on the right level of capacity of wisdom, you know, of experience for that role.
 So make sense? Yeah. Then what I, again, I could talk about this all day long. This is going to be my last then on this question right here.
 This is the last other piece of the last one. As an owner, you have to ask yourself the quite one of the things we taught.
 I also at this past event. I think we taught. I think I taught this set to note.
 Okay. Raise hiring. I think I did teach you set the lesson.
 Is take a look at how much money you're spending on you as an owner or as a leader. What is your salary and then take a hard look at the things that you're doing?
 So it's we call it killing the leadership crisis. I'm kidding. We're going to teach that. I believe killing the leadership crisis cycle in 2022 next year's next leadership level event.
 That'll be one of the lessons that we'll teach.
 When you look at the, when you're able to list out the things that you do, you will find probably at least half if not more is stuff you should be paying somebody else to do at a lower pay level.
 Paying amount. Right. So if you looked at the business on it as an investor and you saw the owners take home pay which hey, the owner should do that.
 They're the ones that put on the sweat, the tear, the risk, all that stuff.
 Do what you want to do. Here's the point that I'm making. If you're a tell us say you're taking home $75,000, a hundred thousand dollars.
 So 150 thought whatever it is that you're doing in your business, but you're doing $30,000 work, then you're wasting you as a resource for the business.
 Yeah, it's all managing those resources.
 Yeah, that's powerful. Everybody in this business does not want me focused on administrative stuff because if I'm focusing on administrative stuff, then I'm paying you too much.
 That's exactly it. Yeah. Because then I'm not focusing on the higher level stuff that brings more money to the business and more opportunity for the team to get paid.
 And when I focus on the right stuff, I need you focused on that.
 That's exactly it. Because then not only do we make more money, but we also make more profit, then I can share more profit with the team. It becomes a great circular process.
 That's the last one I'm going to do in that question.
 I love that because we talk about that here in the office a lot of, okay, I've got Brian or Adir, whoever else doing this job is this what I want to be paying them to do.
 And if not, what do I need them focused on instead that?
 And that works at the CEO level as well. And that makes complete, complete sense. So rapid fire.
 Here we go. Rapid fire. This is bonus round. Rapid fire.
 Not a deep dive. All right. So how do parents with small children put a good understanding of the value of money and let's say and model it.
 Okay. Without setting it up as an idol to worship.
 Oh my gosh. You must must must must must must.
 Teach your children their worth is in God.
 So believers. And non-believers you need to do this too. You just got to get on the believer train. You got to teach your kids their worth is not in what they own.
 If they are watching you gain worth and identity from the car you drive, from the house you own, from when people come over that you go ballistic to make everything look perfect.
 If they whatever they see, there's so many moms that I watch struggle with their daughters focusing on their looks.
 But then when you look at the mom, they're you focus on their looks. That's such a worth issue.
 Right? And it's like, well mom, you got to teach her that her worth is not in her looks because her worth is not.
 That's not it. It's not the exterior, right? Teach the right things. There's so many dads or guys that teach that your worth is in what you accomplish.
 Instead of your worth is in how God sees you. Right? And so if they see dad going out and you see old cat and the cradle song, right?
 You know, if they see that dad is always gone, always working, always out there trying to accomplish.
 And it doesn't have to be a father son mother daughter. It crosses as well. It could be a daughter's trying to be just like her dad.
 A son is just trying to be like, you know, all that stuff can cross over.
 So important thing is teach them their true worth and then make sure that when you are doing money, model money as a tool, not as something that is worth or identity.
 All right. Great. Last one, teens, college, age. Let's talk about millennials. I don't want to beat the dead horse, but I do want to address what's in the cart.
 We've talked about it before. The millenials can not always, but can tend to have a sense of entitlement.
 How can they test what's the thought process here for determining their relationship with money and making the necessary adjustments to them?
 Okay. So another big key.
 If you are a millennial and you feel entitled, understand you've been taught it's up, then okay to be that way.
 We, a lot of the older generations look at the millennials and go, oh my gosh, I cannot believe how they think. And then we don't recognize that they're parents or the ones that talk them.
 Right? They taught them that they should be dependent in that they don't have to go work and they don't have to hear the word no.
 So speaking to the millennials, yes, you may be frustrated with the way that people view you, but guess what? You've been taught that this is life. People are supposed to take care of you.
 If you get upset, it won't go somewhere else. The lack of work ethic is bad teaching. It's horrible parenting. So how do you test where you are?
 One of the things you have to ask yourself in an honest, honest way is are you expecting the world to take care of you?
 Or are you expecting that you have to go bust it for what you have? Man, there's a clear line there, right? There's a clear delineation.
 Any entitlement where I think that I deserve something for any reason that I did not go and earn, I have got to kick that to the car.
 I've got to get that out of my mind or as my wife would say, ditch that to the car. I've got to kick that out of my mind. I can't think that way.
 I praise God for a mom who didn't buy us a snowblower, who didn't buy us a hydraulic log splitter.
 While my brother and I may have complained about shoveling snow and splitting logs, you know, wood by hand and all that kind of stuff.
 We have a phenomenal work ethic. I have a great work ethic. I don't have a problem getting out and bust the getting things done.
 I don't believe the world owes me anything. I praise God for what I have. And so that would be a great test as asking yourself, do you believe you deserve anything because you exist?
 I think that's got to be the reset button right there. And that happens with us. Gen X is as well.
 We go chasing after things because we think somehow we got jipped and we needed to go, you know, make it back up and set that right and balance out that equation.
 But for for more information on either of these two, whether you're that parent on the one side, go back and listen to 421,
 change your family tree, leave a last last thing legacy. And if you are a younger person, college career age, first of all,
 I applaud you for listening to this podcast. This is going to change your future and the legacy that you leave, go back and listen to 425,
 beyond tasks, excellent as a work ethic. Absolutely. Well, folks, again, well, hey, you want to close us tonight. Can you do it?
 I'm going to put you on those fun again. He's too for well, he's no, he's zero.
 There's one. I want you to take the information. I want you to change your leadership, change your business and change your life.
 Bingo and and we'll see you next time. Join us on the next step. There you go. Folks, we love having you guys with us. We hope this has helped.
 We will see you next time as we talk about probably more finances.
 [Music]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]