 A journey from leader to owner to the owner of multiple thriving businesses that are rapidly expanding in different markets.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 Today we have got a fantastic guest on the show.
 Chris Camp is joining us.
 Chris Camp is a great friend as well as a fantastic leader, family man, a business owner down in the
 Atlanta area.
 And he is joining us on the show to talk about a crazy wild ride from leader to business
 owner to multiple business, just growing like crazy.
 You guys are going nuts with a whole lot of stuff happening, a lot of great stuff, a lot of stuff that you work through.
 So folks, do me favor, welcome to the show Chris Camp.
 Chris, it's good to have you on.
 Good to be here.
 What's your good and brother how are things?
 Good, busy man.
 So we're getting ready to launch our next business here.
 So we're just busy getting all that stuff done.
 Man, that is crazy.
 It is so fun to watch the progression and we're going to hit a whole bunch of stuff about how things
 you screwed up with, things that have been tough and things you've done incredibly well, which
 is allowing you to be able to drop in something like a Dallas.
 So you and I have worked together for several years.
 It'll start back at next level leadership live event that was here in Nashville.
 But before we met your journey as a leader and as a business center started well before that.
 So let's talk about that journey.
 We're going to hit all of those things and folks, we're going to hit a whole bunch of practical
 points for you when we come back right after this.
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here.
 I'm device president of leadership development on Chris's team and I oversee our next level
 mastermind business coaching program.
 Most business owners and leaders lack a clear path to succeed in business.
 The question whether they're making the right decisions, if they're focusing on the right things
 to really grow their business.
 If this is you, you need a coach in your life.
 Coaches help you make better decisions, navigate uncertainty, leave more effectively and grow
 your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue
 and an average of 138% increase in net profit and regain hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3.5 years simply because of the results they get.
 So if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been
 wanting, then visit ChrisCarto.com/mastermind.
 Again, ChrisCarto.com/mastermind today.
 Alright, we're back and we're talking with Chris Camp.
 Chris, tell us about yourself.
 Tell us about the business, what you guys are currently doing and then we're going to go into
 a whole bunch of stuff of how you got to wear your.
 So we have currently have three different business units.
 We have a land-up painting company where we do painting, gutters, flooring, a Nashville painting
 company which is just as painting and then we have a company called Southeast and Commercial
 which does painting and installs basically running trim, sanding, trim, doors, all that good stuff.
 So they all kind of have different market segment and then we have another company that basically
 just services those three businesses that provides all the marketing accounting all
 that kind of stuff as well.
 And then you're opening up in Dallas as well.
 We're opening Dallas.
 So Dallas will be a residential branch but we're watching that June one.
 I'm so excited about entering the Texas market and hopefully in the next few years we'll have
 locations in Houston, San Antonio and Austin as well.
 It's so funny because you guys did half of our event space.
 We were by buildings and we were building on and we added onto it so we had the first one
 done and then when we bought the new one and ripped open walls and all that and built a whole
 bunch of stuff and you guys came in.
 It's so funny because for years I've pointed to people and say, "So take a look at this half
 of the building compared to that half."
 This is the kind of quality work you want and the funny thing is we thought the first half
 of the building was really good but managed to make a difference when you have that kind
 of quality.
 You could just literally look at it and see, I don't know, maybe it's not easy to most people
 but for somebody who would you pay for it, you sure could tell the difference.
 Let's talk about your leadership journey before coming to the next level leadership live event.
 That was man, that was back in 2016.
 What was it like before that?
 So I have always been an entrepreneur since I was young.
 I've always loved business.
 So in college I ran a little business and then ended up on this journey through that kind of
 how I got in painting was a ran a painting company in college and then did some leadership
 stuff there.
 Then I went to Phoenix and did really well out there for a year and then kind of came to Atlanta
 to start this.
 So I was 23 when I started in Atlanta.
 I might kind of claim the fame as I've never had a job really outside of being like, "I think
 my last job was for Coca-Cola as a merchandiser when I was a freshman in college."
 Other than that I pretty much have been self-employed most of my life.
 So I've always been kind of that entrepreneur thing like that and I was really good at it
 and really good at making things happen.
 But when I went to Arizona I came in and was part of a business that we tripled in 10 months.
 I was in charge of all the sales.
 Moved and started our business in 2006 and within eight months we were on track to do $1.5 million
 a year.
 One of the best things that ever happened to me was the economy fell apart because that
 was a very humbling experience because I learned very quickly that I maybe I wasn't quite
 as good as I thought I was.
 And I obviously have some skills and some abilities but I was when I started the business biggest
 thing I realized pretty quickly was I was really good at doing things but I wasn't really
 good at leading people.
 And so that's I guess, oh man so that was 06, so 08 was when Paul joined and then from
 08 until probably really about 2016.
 I mean it was a pretty uphill struggle I'm just trying to figure out how to make things
 where probably like 14 is when we stopped having to worry about how we were going to cover payroll
 every week.
 So I mean so from you're talking was it six years, six or eight years like I mean it was a
 pretty uphill battle.
 I mean it was funny my wife Paul and I were out last week and we were just reminiscing about
 some of those days of like you know it Paul would be like well you guys take a check
 this month I you know I can get by or it would be like you haven't taken a check at two
 months Paul you take a check you know like it was just whatever we could do to survive.
 So and through that journey you know I grew quite a bit as a leader and have you know
 obviously since we've met grown even significantly more as a leader but that was those are some
 interesting years.
 What was so it's crazy because a lot of folks know what it's like to just get out there and
 bust your butt you got to make something happen you going from man things are happening really
 well to crap.
 This is now gotten tough.
 What was work life balance like?
 Did that even exist back then?
 I know there wasn't work life balance.
 I mean it was my wife was amazing about that like she was she was very very I mean very
 gracious in the fact that she just like she was always my biggest cheerleader so she never
 I never ever felt like oh man I'm getting home at any clock at night like it was you know
 from that perspective.
 She was awesome in that we got married and they got pregnant right away so we had kids so that
 was interesting and she was a head coach basketball so it was just kind of this constant
 juggling act a little bit I guess but she was awesome about that so there really wasn't
 work life balance.
 It was like we did what we had to do to survive.
 It was put your nose through the grindstone and figure it out.
 Right years of actually trying to get the ox out of the ditch and make something happen until
 it released.
 Well what are some of the challenges that you experience where some of the setbacks or some
 of the struggles that really sucked?
 Well I think the hardest thing is when I look back on those days or where I've learned from
 those things was I really couldn't duplicate myself.
 So as I look you couldn't do it or didn't know how to do it.
 I didn't know how to at that point.
 So the issue I would have is there was only so much to me and so as we're trying to like
 build a business you know I was just kind of running from fire to fire to try to like get things
 back in order because I didn't have anybody else who could necessarily help me put the fire
 out.
 And he would do whatever I asked him to and he'd run through a wall.
 He just didn't have a lot of skills at that point.
 He was just kind of doing whatever he could to help and I would put out the fire and you know
 it's kind of that.
 That was probably the biggest thing was I didn't know how to duplicate my stealth or to take
 the things or the my abilities and give them to other people to be able to solve the problems
 without having to run through me.
 Was that what so what was that like as far as were you attempting to or was it a man I hadn't
 even thought about that yet?
 I would say there that I think I knew I needed to but I also think that I probably didn't
 necessarily want to.
 Like of trust that it was going to work out or I mean my wife would say I'm self described
 control freak.
 So and partly of that because I know if I'm in charge of it it's going to get done.
 It's going to happen right?
 So I think there was a big part of me that knew I needed to do that but didn't want to.
 Didn't want to let go of it.
 Didn't want to be able to do that.
 And that's a super important for everybody who's listening because we just now have with you saying
 that a ton of people that immediately just related and they're gone while this guy's successful
 and he feels the same way I don't know that's the way you felt there's a world of difference.
 And we've all been there and that's one of the things we talk about is that you know when
 delegation is here you do this, wait you're sucking at it let me take it back that doesn't
 actually work.
 But the key is is that everybody goes through that that's something that everybody experiences
 everybody knows.
 I don't know how to solve this since I can't get it done the way that I want it to let me just
 take it back and run with it and then wonder why you know there is no work for a flat
 balance.
 Was there any like brick walls or anything that you couldn't break through other than like
 delegation and stuff?
 So we I mean from a revenue perspective we were stuck we basically had the same revenues
 from the first year we started until year five.
 I mean it's in bro like.
 And I think at the time I think I blamed it a lot more on the economy and the things around
 us than I did but it was definitely a direct correlation to my leadership causing a piece
 of a lot of things.
 So the walls we kind of faced then were we didn't have a lot of vision we didn't have a lot
 of strategic plan, we didn't have really a lot of direction of what separated us from other
 companies, we didn't have kind of a core of values of who we are and this is what we are and
 here's what we're trying to accomplish.
 So those things all just kind of held us back right I didn't know that then I didn't know
 what I didn't know right.
 I'm a you know to put it in the perspective of an emotional perspective I'm a 28 29 year old
 kid who's got a kid in the wife and I'm trying to figure out how to pay the mortgage and put
 groceries on the table.
 And personality saw walls you know personality saw was a hard charging driver you know get
 done get done get done just keep going.
 Yeah right yeah yeah so when people talk about brick walls I don't really relate to that
 I guess because you just keep going.
 I just keep building.
 I mean I probably hit it a few times but I just kept going like I tell people this all the time
 I shouldn't quit like if I was a rational saying here the bill I should have but literally
 I think the joys of working for home.
 Absolutely.
 So what I was saying was is like the the person of yearance to push through those things that's
 probably like the main point that I should try to highlight is like that's a lot of times
 the difference between success and not being successful is not quitting when it makes
 logical sense.
 Yeah like not you know because I mean if I think about it like we probably should have quit and
 while we should have quit we were doing things we were building towards the future.
 We were laying foundation we were learning things we were and so that's one of the things
 where I talk about is the economy crashing not only humble me but it also gave us a time
 to figure out all of these things because what would have happened if the economy was good we
 would grow in my crazy exactly because we can sell like our organization like we've talked
 about before we don't have a problem at revenue that's never a problem for us like we
 just organizationally like revenue finding jobs finding work is not hard.
 So we would have grown but we would have crashed because we didn't get what have
 been the latest foundation because we didn't get to learn any of that stuff.
 So I'm very thankful that it did happen the way it did because I don't think I'd be sitting
 here right now back.
 No doubt.
 So back then were there any things or what kind of things we're doing to try and solve the
 challenges that you were experiencing?
 So I mean I have always been a big reader so I would read a lot of books that kind of
 were right at the beginning of podcasts I guess kind of want to podcast things started.
 Listen to podcasts.
 I'm kind of think we started that we actually did a little bit of kind of similar programs
 to what we did with you guys for a little bit.
 So the that we were just one of the things that we've always had as an organization as a curiosity
 to be better and so we knew that we weren't a finished product by any means and so we were
 always kind of like hey well that was cool let's try that like that was kind of our mentality
 of mindset of you know well like that program looks fantastic I mean I remember listening to
 you like when you were an entry leadership like we would listen to your podcast all the time
 to like oh man we should try that thing that guy talked about that like let's you know implement
 that into our business so well we are going to hit a lot of that stuff we're going to talk
 about how we met and all how things started changing when we come back right after this.
 Hey folks a couple years ago I was visiting with a client and the CEO said to me Chris we're
 not going to hit our goal.
 I asked him what he meant and he said we're going to miss our three year revenue goal coming
 out of strat plan by a few months.
 I didn't realize it at first that he was having a little fun with me by saying they were about
 to triple their company in less than three years how freaking awesome is that folks these
 are the kinds of results that businesses get by coming through our four day strat plan event.
 On average we find two point one million dollars worth of revenue in the next 12 months that
 the company was not planning on and the event is for all size businesses if you're small
 medium or large it works for every single business because it's not industry specific.
 It's about gaining all the information about all the things inside of your business that
 are holding you back from success and then giving you a plan and a process on how to walk that
 out and be successful in your business by discovering the things that are holding you back
 it helps you get to all of those goals that you've been planning on for a long time.
 So if you're ready to get the perspective you need to solve what's holding you and your
 business back so you can grow faster than you need strat plan.
 To learn more go to Chrissacordo.com/stratplan that's Chrissacordo.com/stratplan
 We are back and we're talking about with Chris Camp this amazing journey of entrepreneurship,
 leadership, owning multiple businesses and then we get into some of my favorite parts,
 some of the fun stuff when we when we connected when we met when we started to do things
 together.
 Back in 2016 Paul Carr, who is a big part of the business, somebody you grew up with,
 somebody you guys have known each other forever, he invited you to the next level of
 leadership live event.
 So what made you say, yeah this is the one that we should do, this is the thing that we should
 go to.
 I can go back to what I just said before, we just kind of were like, well that looks good
 but it's good to try it.
 I honestly, I wish I had a better story like man you had a podcast and I listened to it.
 This thing that just touched my heart, why is it a page?
 But literally so Paul was listening to your podcast and he was like hey they're doing this
 event blah blah blah, I think it'd be really good for us to go and I was like, oh all right,
 let's do it.
 That was essentially what was our kind of drive and forced to go.
 I won't.
 So again I think like I said we always have this curiosity to be better.
 It's actually one of our core values we define now is that making it better is a part of who
 we are but that was kind of always been a part of our DNA I guess.
 Now you guys have had some crazy transformative moments as a business owner over the last few
 years.
 What were some of those moments that felt like a huge leap forward or a huge win for you?
 No man, I think the biggest one for us has been our culture.
 And we talked a little bit.
 We talked a little bit about favourites stories.
 Our environment in our office was so bad that literally Paul and I would be like, oh I'm
 just going to work from home this afternoon.
 Owner doesn't want to go into the office.
 That's so cool.
 It was just a culture of like gossip and just very negative.
 So I think our first scrap plan.
 So we went to the next level a lot of it.
 We got into the program, we did the platinum like all this and side up the scrap plan.
 And I would say the majority of scrap plan one was culture.
 It was just like it was literally like culture getting a defined value system, getting a
 defined mission, like getting the things that I think we had kind of habit but never really
 took the time to write down and define as us.
 And I think that's the difference between moving from like what we would call like ritual
 to habits, right?
 There's a lot of rituals of things you do, but when you have a process and it's written down
 and documented it goes from a ritual to a process.
 So that was a big transformative moment for us.
 We got to define the leadership team.
 We started having actual leadership meetings, we started discussing issues inside of the business
 on a weekly basis.
 It blows my mind that five years ago we did have a leadership team.
 Because literally when I started, when we started Dallas, we'll have a weekly leadership
 meeting and it might be like three people that will have a meeting.
 Even just the importance of that cohesive leadership team.
 So leadership team is a massive one that we've had.
 But to me the culture is the biggest thing.
 Because without our culture we would not have attracted the people that we brought on to our
 team.
 The mass, the thing that has allowed us to grow more than anything is we just keep hiring
 better and better people and more and more talented people.
 And so it's the culture.
 I do a class with every new hire when they come on boards called Foundations.
 And it's like a day class with me and I just take them through the history of the business.
 It doesn't matter which business you're in at the end.
 So if they get hired as the SEC or Atlanta or Nashville or Dallas or whatever it is, they go through
 a class with me for a day.
 And we go through, we talk about our culture, we talk about our mission, we talk about our values,
 we talk about disc, we talk about values, we talk about just all personality style, we talk about
 all that kind of foundational stuff.
 And the question I always ask people is why did you come work here?
 And nine out of ten times it's when I walked through the indoor, the environment was super
 inviting.
 I felt like home.
 It was something about the environment just maybe want to be here.
 And it's crazy because one of our guys who is a leader now, he runs our commercial business,
 we went through Stratplan and then really started to focus on our culture and make that was
 just force it, force it, force it.
 I remember having one of the other things out of the first Stratplan was that we needed to have fun.
 And so we started having company events and doing fun things.
 Because Paul and I were just kind of like, we showed you where if you do something.
 I was just going.
 I'm not everybody's like, you know, like that, they want to have a good time.
 But what was funny about it is I remember we had this event, it was in March.
 We were sitting outside and was a company event.
 We had it at my house.
 And so it was just like a food truck, people and mercenary.
 Somebody started saying something about another employee.
 I'm just kind of joking half-hearted way.
 I don't think it was malicious in any way.
 But it was just kind of inappropriate.
 I didn't feel with our culture.
 And I was about to go say something.
 And another employee was like, hey man, they're not here, you know, both like, jumped into
 the window.
 I was like, oh, you might be honest something here.
 Maybe this little girl guy knows what he's talking about.
 It becomes so policing at work.
 And so that culture piece is just it is, if I would tell any business owner, you want
 to fix your business, stop worrying about processes, stop worrying about systems, stop worrying
 about how you sell more.
 You start figuring out how you have a culture that attracts great people.
 Because if you find great people, they'll figure out how to go sell sell.
 Yeah.
 This is where it's fun in the conversation.
 Because we've got this front side of you running like crazy, knowing you should duplicate
 yourself, wanting to be able to duplicate yourself, not really knowing how to duplicate yourself.
 And then roll forward to, and I'll never forget that.
 We've done how many strap ones we've done now.
 Three, four, three, four if there's coming up in November.
 Okay.
 I'll never forget that for a strap line because you guys who came had phenomenal communication.
 And it's one of the, the, what we will see every single time on a very first strap line
 is the lack of communication on a leadership team, which shows that it's compounded
 like crazy inside of the business.
 However you have, you know, when you don't have high quality communication, you can be sure
 that the rest of the company has considerably less.
 But you guys were the first folks coming in.
 And even though you didn't have an established leadership team yet, you guys coming in that
 were running the business.
 You guys did a great job.
 And then when you told me as we're digging through and you're like, "Oh, we don't go into
 the office all the time.
 There's times we will stay away."
 You know, it's, well, why?
 Well, because it's a little toxic and there's gossip.
 Whether it's this, it's like, this is so crazy.
 Usually it's not that way rolling forward from a business owner who doesn't want to go into
 his office because of toxicity.
 You're literally having a party, a celebration with your team.
 And now you have this self-policing culture where a team member is shutting down toxicity.
 It had to just be a stunning moment.
 It was.
 And the crazy thing about it is that that event was Mike, who, but now runs our SSC business
 group.
 And the crazy thing about it was he had a job offer that was $30,000 more a year in salary
 than what we could pay him that he didn't take.
 And he loved the environment and the opportunity that we could provide.
 Man, that is just, that's so awesome.
 That is fantastic.
 And the great thing is, is as we've worked together throughout the years, it's this process
 where, and again, we're going to get to some of this.
 I got a bunch of stuff I want to hit.
 But you guys have walked through the success path.
 We talked about the leadership success path.
 We did that on episode 402.
 You guys have been killing it.
 But to jump forward to look at wanting that duplication process, wanting to be able to have
 a good environment, wanting to have.
 And the funny thing is, is even back then, you're not thinking, oh, if we do this culture
 stuff, it's going to create a greater pool for us.
 But by doing it, you're not only having people who want to stay and do a great job in
 self-police the culture because they enjoy it.
 But now you're attracting freaking rock stars.
 Like every time you guys come back up with a leadership team, it is, you know, the folks that
 have been there forever have stepped up.
 They've done better, they've grown, they're taking on bigger roles.
 But man, it's like this phenomenal machine that's just bringing up people up into the leadership,
 that layer.
 How does that feel?
 What does that like?
 It's awesome to walk out of the room and know that you're not the smartest person in the
 room.
 I would tell every business leader or owner that the pinnacle of my opinion is to be able to walk
 into the room and go, I am by far the dumbest person in this room.
 And I could hold my own in any room and certainly I know that.
 But like it's awesome to walk in and be like, just watch the environment and what's really
 cool to go back to that culture piece is it's all for there.
 Like in Atlanta, our director of operations, Gary, ran a sure-win-wounds store for 20 years.
 It took significantly less money to come work for us because he was like, what you guys are
 doing, I want to be a part of.
 And he's a huge impact in the changes we've seen in our business.
 He's a rock star.
 He kind of gone to a lot of different places but he chose us.
 It's just, you know, we've got people like that and we've got Jason who's our VP of sales
 in Atlanta and he's homegrown.
 He started as a project manager and the group.
 Like, as we've got to mix the both in its cool, it's just really cool to see how that all works
 together.
 Like you said, it's just this constant ability to expand because we're just these leaders
 are coming in and they're growing and then wanting more.
 And I love that and correct me from wrong on this.
 By nature, the business, you've got certain pieces in place that will help you to expand but
 because you have the culture, you know, you're drawing people to you, it just increases
 your ability to grow.
 Not just number-wise but stability-wise.
 Oh, oh, for yeah, it's.
 Because you put non-rock stars that are staying longer, doing better.
 Yeah, it's 100%.
 Like we have people who are coming to our company for careers, not for jobs.
 Right, not for paycheck, absolutely.
 And that's, I mean, we've got a new guy that, and this is really cool.
 I'm really excited about this.
 We basically, I was not involved in the hiring process at all.
 I met him.
 We literally, the leadership team was like, hey, we want you to meet this guy, we're bringing
 him on board but we're so excited for you to meet him because he is exactly what we're
 looking for.
 And I'm like, I met him and I was sitting there and I was like, I can be a little bit of an
 intimidating guy at times where people get into him.
 And I remember he was an intimidating.
 Like he was like, so self confident, just like he's coming in and I asked him, I said, what's
 your vision?
 Like he's coming in to kind of run, like we're trying to expand in the commercial repaint
 sector in our Atlanta business.
 And I'm like, well, what's your, and he's coming from a commercial sales background in landscaping.
 I'm like, what's your long term?
 What do you want to do?
 Like he's like, I want to run a division.
 Like I want to come here and have multiple salespeople, multiple project managers, like I want
 to be sitting on that leadership team running a division that's a huge part of this company.
 Oh, love it.
 That was like, all right, we can hire this guy.
 You can start one.
 Yeah, okay.
 It's 30 minutes for now.
 And it's just, it's the coolest part about it was, is like, I didn't recruit him.
 I didn't interview him.
 I didn't, I wasn't a part of any of that kind of process, but our leaders that are in that
 business have, they know what we're looking for.
 They know what we are as a company and the culture we want, the type of people we want.
 And they can sign it and bring it in.
 It's just awesome to be able to see that.
 Now we have another piece that he can grow into something fantastic.
 There's such a world of difference.
 And I think every leader out there has had that person that's come in with their own ideas
 of all how they're going to change the business, how they're going to do, how they're going
 to be better than you've ever done.
 You've put your blood sweat and tears into this.
 Well, I'm going to show you how to do this.
 Everybody's had that guy.
 But there's such a world of difference when somebody comes in and they're like, no, I want
 to bring my guess and talents to this business.
 I want to inject into what you guys are doing because I'm now passionate about the business
 itself.
 It's not all about me.
 Look how amazing I am.
 This is going to be credible.
 It's I want to be a part of this business.
 And man, I tell you what, there is nothing greater than when you have a kind of culture that
 attracts that person.
 And like you said, you didn't even have anything to do with this.
 This is somebody who's coming in who's seeing what's going on and then the leadership team
 has dropped in him in front of you going, we have another champion.
 We'd like to bring on.
 It's so powerful.
 So powerful.
 So for owners and leaders who are listening, who may be a few years behind you in the journey,
 how would you encourage them?
 How would you tell them, you know, even if they're starting out, how would you encourage them?
 So I think the first thing I would say is there's a quote from John Maxwell that I'm not going
 to quote this correctly, but he basically says that anything in life that is significant
 or meaningful is going to be difficult.
 And so I think the first thing is this acknowledge that by running or doing a business or being,
 it's significant and it's meaningful and it's going to be difficult.
 And the difficulty doesn't ever really go away.
 That's the thing is like you need to love that challenge because it isn't going to change
 the challenge just changes.
 So the challenge that I had the first five years is different from the challenge that we have
 today.
 So I would just tell you that it's going to be hard.
 Don't quit.
 I'll be the biggest I'll tell you is that it's worthwhile.
 It's meaningful.
 Don't quit because on the other side there's something amazing that you'll get to if you
 just keep pushing forward.
 Yeah, absolutely.
 How did you start thinking about scalability?
 Like what got you to start thinking in terms of setting up to scale?
 So I would say that's probably a big thing that I've credit.
 So you and that I've got a good friend of mine, the two of you, probably helped me more with
 that than anything else.
 So up until the point where we met you guys, our business would have been what I would have
 considered like.
 It would have been me with a chain just dragging everybody behind me if they're going uphill.
 So that was what I wanted to go or not or this was what I wanted to go.
 This is what we're going.
 You're coming with me.
 If you don't the doors right there and we'll get somebody off you.
 That was kind of the mentality of like is there.
 So I think one of the things I remember getting at the event in 2016 was I can't do this anymore.
 I physically like emotionally mentally don't know that I have the capacity.
 We were a $5 million company and I had just like I don't think I could push it any further
 than I did.
 And so I remember one of the things just that talking with you and then I have another friend
 of mine who is a business owner and really starting to learn what it meant to be strategic
 and starting to think kind of long term and starting to like lay pieces out.
 And I remember talking about friend and he was starting his business and he would be he would
 build out whole part of his business.
 He'd build a whole HR department out and he wouldn't have anybody there.
 But he goes in two years I'll need somebody and when I do I can just pop somebody in and
 it's already ready to run.
 And I remember thinking of myself like, well man look at that long term thinking and so I learned
 the kind of strategic skill ability thing and so through that I just started to go like I think
 skill ability more than anything is it's thinking two or three steps ahead and not being afraid
 to make the investment you need today for what you need tomorrow.
 And that was the biggest thing is from a value perspective I'm a super high economic which means
 I want to get everything all the dollar I possibly can out of this year and the next year will
 worry about next year.
 And so that was kind of the change and even to the point where like we're sitting at a meeting
 on Monday and we're looking at Atlanta for example and West and I so West is my president
 who runs the day today.
 West and I had you know how to meeting and like we mapped out the next three years like from
 a revenue perspective like what's growth looked like this this business is like we're going to
 need from a structure standpoint you know what pieces or people would be half the higher and
 we're sitting there and I was mapping out I'm like West like if you do all this stuff you
 realize like you guys are 25 million company right.
 He's like yeah yeah and I'm like none of that stuff seems very like ambitious either like
 he's like no it doesn't.
 But it's it's the scalability thesis like we're thinking ahead and so we're going.
 So here's the thing is you know we're getting ready to make a higher because like we've
 overwhelmed our team like our marketing department has done such a good job this year
 that we're literally like we can't run all the estimates we're getting right now like we're
 bound to go into our busy season and we're already a week out for estimates which is a
 awesome problem and so we're you know working through this problem solving this and and
 there you know and our director of operations goes well I've got a great guy but you know
 he won't we can't put him in this role because he can't fit the salary for requirements
 and I was like whole a second I'm like we're gonna need somebody here in two years would
 we've not want to bring on a great person and pay a little extra the day to be able to
 have somebody that we could grow into this role that we know we're gonna need and they're
 all like yeah we would I'm like all right so let's not we know it's like let's not limit
 ourselves to you know this is all we can pay so which is such a different thought process
 again if we compare early days to now you know we can only pay what we can pay we can only
 put somebody in a role that we can afford you know let's get the button to seat and move
 forward as opposed to now if this long term thinking of we you know we're doing the right
 things we're putting the right things in place let's think beyond this which you point
 into a great thing you are a high economic now it's always funny because as I teach values and when
 we what you're speaking about is what we call values or also another term we call it as motivators
 so you're somebody who's highly economic or highly utilitarian you you like the return on investment
 on whatever you're gonna put out if it's gonna be money if it's gonna be you know personal time
 whatever it is you're always looking for that return on investment and always said a high
 economics y'all are short term thinkers you don't think long term and I used to be back in you know
 back in my early days I was very high economic as well and then always go no we're not
 no we think long term is like no look at this this this yep you're right we're certain
 things I could always do better with the money I've got right now than putting it away and let
 it grow it's a bigger not I can make more with right now but in that very first strap plan
 we were walking through and again for us everybody out there selling their magic pill on how you can
 grow your business and really finding the money is not the issue it's all the things holding you back
 and I remember walking through that process in the very first what are you like hold on a second
 where's the money like we're gonna get there but let's look at this we get a little bit for the
 hold on a second but where's the money now like we're good it's okay we're gonna get there don't worry
 about it then we get like the third time it was like hold on but where's the money all right here if we
 did this how much is that probably about a million okay if we did this and fix this how much is that probably
 about 250 thousand what if we fix this that's at least another hundred thousand okay keep going
 and that process the difference between then and now I mean literally you know I mean
 brother I couldn't be more proud of how well you've done and always say madafel is gonna hire somebody
 to come in and run strap plan and do this stuff with me it would be you the difference between
 that place of but I don't know how we're gonna get to the money and I gotta see them I gotta see this
 and we gotta keep going and we gotta you know drag on the chain up the hill and you know doing these things
 to you're literally guiding people to no think longer think bigger think you know what could it look like
 in three years slow that part down take somebody and yes we have a salary requirement right now but we're
 gonna be looking here fit that back in talk about that shift in mindset like what are what are
 some of the top decisions that you've made that's taking you from that crisp to this crisp
 oh man it's so I would it's that's a really good question it's a lot of
 multiple things there so I think number one is surrounding yourself with people that will challenge
 you thinking so it's one being humble enough to ask people for their opinions so one I think I'm I think
 I was a general rule I'm not afraid to ask people's thoughts or opinions that I respect on making decisions
 yeah so you know like obviously like Joel and you Paul we got a great leadership team of guys that's
 we kind of meet on a monthly that you know we'll challenge thinking or thoughts or whatever going or
 things like that so that would be number one and I think the other big thing that really helped me
 there is is getting a really clear vision is another big part of it so for me getting a really clear
 vision of why we wanted to grow and why we wanted to continue to expand and why we wanted to do
 those things once we got that it just became like crystal clear for me it's like that's an
 investment you know that's an investment I'm willing to make it you know and I'll be just quite frank too it's
 probably easier economically where I sit today than it would have been 10 years ago you know because
 economically I'm not trying to figure out how to feed my family you know so that part of it does make it
 easier so I don't want to it's a lot easier when it's like we're paying all of our bills I'm getting my
 salary and you know I can think longer term yeah well I think the big key to that is because I don't want
 people to just hear what we have for money now you literally made changes you implemented stuff you
 did the things we've talked through you've changed the stuff and now you have that money which makes
 it easier so it was bust in your butt yeah I mean it's I mean because it's 2016 like I mean
 again we weren't like destitute poor like by any means but there is a significant difference in what that
 looks like I mean you have a company wide organization standpoint in 2016 you know I think we did
 five million dollars and you know the end of 21 if everyone achieves their revenue goals will do 28
 billion yeah right so so that's that's from the perspective of thinking long term is it happens faster
 than you think too that's the other thing sometimes like you think it's gonna be years and it happens a
 lot faster than what you think so so that's a part but for me those are the big things this shifting
 like you say shifting my mindset to what do I want so like our vision like the reason like the
 we create our vision is we want to grow and expand to create opportunities for people to become the
 best versions of themselves what we have determined as a leadership team is is that you can't become
 the best version of yourself unless you have a challenge that is growing you and most people don't get
 challenged in the last they step into a new opportunity and so we're just constantly thinking like hey if we do this
 so like when we look out like launching something it's not just what is it gonna do for revenue but who would
 step up and have to do that what kind of impact would it make on that right now like okay well you know
 this guy could do it but he'd have to learn these these things to be able to step into that role or she could
 do it but she'd have to be able to do these things so I love it because you just mentioned West Dill who is
 the president of Atlanta painting and a phenomenal guy a gummy bear eaten phenomenal pick I pops a
 gummy bear is like crazy and he is a monster high sea and he is the president of the company and
 saw love what you're saying because you've challenged so for people out there that are looking at
 personality styles and just going well certain personality styles can fit leadership and certain you know
 it's only the dees or the eyes that can do this and we say all the time no it's maturity in your
 personality style that allows you to do this you keep creating that challenge you keep creating that
 challenge for your team you create an opportunity where a super high sea could step up into a role running
 a 28 you know soon to be 28 million dollar business he's gone through many bags of gummy bears doing
 this but you know he's a phenomenal guy and I love it because on the last strapped plan you know when
 he's running this process and you're sitting on the side watching you know this new leadership team that
 stepped up and and saying how great he's doing and it's just so crazy powerful that creating that
 challenge for your team if not just going you know it's still all about me it's got to be me I've got
 to control you're so far beyond all of that into how do I develop people into being that best version
 of yourself and I just think that's so crazy powerful so what are some challenges that you guys are facing
 today and how are you tackling them so I think the biggest challenge for me is stepping back
 so the balance between stepping back and letting these leaders fail a little bit and it's stepping in
 so you know this Decemberish I kind of made the decision to step back a little bit more this year from
 the perspective of not being as much the control freak like not being involved and everything is
 much and just kind of trying to allow them to kind of have the opportunity to run fail so that's kind of
 kind of like having a teenage child being like you know here's the keys and there's a keys
 well while balancing that out by still being available enough to interject and help and give them guidance and
 say hey guys here's something to look at here's something you should see here you know those kind of things
 that's probably that's probably the biggest thing on the challenge side for me personally
 and then the other thing for me is just kind of a shift and roll so like instead of being the guy who's
 kind of you know in the weeds in each of the businesses day to day like you know my role is really more
 like consultant like I have we have a company called TPC Construction Management and so I have a
 controller and a head of marketing head of HR the all report directly to me and so like that's kind of
 my team and then I have the the business units that manage and so like shifting from creating this
 consulting company that's going in and giving them these guys information and insight leadership and all those things
 and and doing that versus being the guy who's like we're doing this and this is the decision we're making
 that's been it's been a bit of a challenge and a little bit of a adventure to say the least for me personally
 but no but it's been good personally as well so it's been it's been nice from a personal work life
 balance that standpoint of I've been able to take a step back more this year personally than I have
 like I think I think from like December 19th until sometime the energy anywhere I had to go the
 office for a month so and the world didn't so it was it was just a good reminder for me is like I've
 got really good people and competent people and they know what they're doing and like I need to let them
 do their job yeah I think it's it's so funny like when we we went our leadership team went
 took two weeks away and once Israel and you know we we talked about what the clients and stuff
 you know we received four emails you know total of like hey can you just answer this you know because
 when you do this stuff and when you help people to be successful and you give them the opportunity
 and then you get out of the way you don't it's not the concept of you put them in a role and then
 baptism by fire and you hope they make it it's literally setting them up training them to be successful
 and then letting them be successful and then being there to support the whole way it doesn't your leadership
 doesn't stop but it's so funny when we got back and we just jumped right in and started going again
 and some of our clients were like dude how many fires did you have to put out it's like there wasn't
 any fires what do you mean there wasn't any fires how could you be away the y'all were the way that
 long no fire there was literally no fires because we do the stuff we teach you to do it it's so fun
 and it's like you say it's you get to this place and a lot of leaders are like well man I'd be afraid
 to experience that because it hate to find out that I'm not needed no no it's not saying you're not needed
 it's saying you're needed in a higher capacity and you're in that place now where you went from
 man you are dragging the chain up the hill you know you're the one who's making it happen to
 you're the one who is strategically looking over how do I not only make this happen but how do I
 allow them to grow into these these roles as well I think the I'd say it's all time for the
 people like who I says a much better manager than I ever would be so he's his skills that his abilities
 like he's just better writing a company on the day to day than I am but where I'm really good is
 a long term vision and being able to say like this is where we need to go and these are the decisions
 we need to like push forward like this is what it looks like five years now building that
 I can do and that's a strength of mine and so one of the things that you know I just challenge
 leaders is like so many of us and myself included and I still bow so time as we get worth from
 our business and how successful we are and all those things we can do and I want everybody to look
 we want everybody to look at us and be like hey man you're so good and the funny thing about it is
 when you're doing the same things and you're growing nobody says that to you and then also one day
 of each of them you guys are everywhere you guys are amazing like whoa what it's like
 dude I'm going to the same thing I did with five years ago like I don't know what you're like you know
 and so it's it's it's just finding the thing that you do like what is your superpower I tell us
 to my leader steam all the time like what's your superpower what's the thing that you are you do better
 than anything else and the more you stay in that thing and you focus on it the better you are so
 if you're not a great person with vision hire somebody who's great at vision and go to the
 business and something today like if you're a great at vision go find a manager or somebody who's
 great at running the business on a day today and let them do those things because they're going to do it
 better and that's okay yeah and I do think you know it's you've pointed to the gifts and
 talents of like a west and these other guys are better and this stuff but I think it's there has to
 also be that recognition of it took a Chris camp to run into 47 brick walls you know it's
 so one of them either busted or fell over to pave away for great guys and great gals to step up in
 and just you know kill it in their in their abilities which you would hate it with your personality
 style if you had to stay in the specific day today for a decade or two and that didn't you know
 that didn't push you up into greater strengths that you have as well so a very important piece for
 people to hear and like you said so if I'm the leader that's out there that's the the one who keeps
 running into the brick walls keep running into the brick walls just get the right tools it'll be
 amazing how much faster you can get through the wall you know well here's per example it's so where we
 know let's see so 2016 so where we took you know 10 years to get to in Atlanta it took us
 four years to get there in Nashville right and my hope is that we can get the you know Dallas
 two or three years right so because of our ability to learn like you don't need to run into brick
 wall sometimes you can just step around the brick wall right a little strategy goes a long way you know
 but I wouldn't have learned that a strategy goes a long way if I had run into the brick wall all
 a hundred times and because I didn't quit I found out that some you know you can just step around the wall
 so that's you know that's the thing and I will say that to my like the losses and the mics and
 you know those guys they're they're really good about their gratefulness for the brick walls that I've
 run into like they you know they're really good about being grateful for the opportunities that got
 but and their confidence and their abilities and they you know they're the times where we're
 west of look at me go like you know there's actually a lot of times where I'm like hey man we should
 do this and it'll look at me and go that's something a great idea but here's the three things we need
 to accomplish first we can put that on the agenda for next year and I'm like no no we need to do this
 like this is going to be awesome and we're going to do this and they look at me go no I need to
 accomplish these three things first and then I can go be that like okay okay but what about this and
 that's what he's got a good job in coming back to the city and he's got afraid to say he's confident
 his abilities but he's also appreciative of and very grateful for the walls that have been
 run through and the time and effort energy and you know of things and and he's been here for
 eight or nine years he's kind of seen a little bit of the beginning and it's funny because we talk about that
 and you know we've got employees I think I think in Atlanta I mean I think we are oldest employee
 outside of our leadership team is like three years so like in their mind you just show up people are
 like he's amazing like it's always been this way I love that you know like the the wusses that have
 that respect like you're saying is he doesn't have a problem telling you Chris that's probably
 not our best idea and at the same time having the respect that the things that you've got after
 is what got us where we are you know there's we can't lose the entrepreneurial mindset we just have to
 put the right tools in place and I think the the most profound thing you said there was and this is one of
 the toughest things especially for business owners it's tough for a leaders period but especially for business
 owners because they they want to be able to do it on their own I think the most profound thing you said is
 we have the ability to learn if you didn't actually learn the things to do you're still running into brick walls
 or you might be not you know you might have sold the business a long time ago or got now it's the ability
 to learn and that's the thing that every leader in every business owner needs to hear if you're not
 willing to learn forget it you just keep running into the brick walls maybe one of them will break
 but when you learn how to go around how to sidestep how to do it smarter then it changes the the
 absolute way that you do your business and it changes the amount of energy and it changes the joy and
 it changes the effort and it changes your work life balance every one of those pieces so tell business
 leaders tell business owners right now what should they be doing in order to grow their capacity
 well I think it depends on where they're at in their journey from a capacity standpoint is I mean I think
 you just you need to be constantly challenging your ideas like I've been really blessed to have
 some fantastic people around me that I can go to and be like hey you know you're a couple of steps ahead of me
 you know how did you get there so I think if you're going to grow your capacity the number one
 thing is is that you need to have some humility to understand that there's a lot of things that you don't know
 well when I were talking last week and we were laughing because at 25 we thought we knew everything
 and at 38 now we're like we don't know anything and it's just you know having some humility to
 understand that find people around you that will challenge you be a for for rocious learner so one of the
 things that I you know talk about is is like you can read a hundred books you read a book pick out one
 thing that you can take an implement into your business and do and and that is probably also just
 the thing on the capacity side is is do like one of the things that we focus on in hiring is we want
 doers like we want people that have done stuff and go do things because you can't fix anything
 if you don't do anything you can spit their pontificates for years about how you're going to make the
 perfect plan but until you go do the plan you don't even know if the plans go to work yeah yeah I think that's
 something that we always are looking for is there's so many people who want to be a part of something
 because they like the thing they want to be a part of but man if you want to get in the door fast
 show that you can actually accomplish something show that you're willing to go grab a chain and drag
 people up a hill so that you know grab a broom go sweep something show us that you're willing to
 get in get your hands dirty and get going yeah it's I mean that's the number one thing like when we
 start a business the first hire that we're looking for outside of the personage converting the business
 is somebody who does things like Paul Paul I thought I had not a lot of skills when he came
 to work for me but the one thing he had was Paul was a doer like Paul would go do things Paul would go make
 things happen now a good chunk of them were well done and a good chunk of them were you know
 not you know perfect but if you go do things it now allows us to go learn something
 like I tell us to sales people at the time is like you can't learn anything from a job you don't
 work yeah so true yeah like you just you're not gonna learn anything so you know you're not gonna learn
 well hey can I cut this corner can I not like can we one coat this can we two coat that like
 you're not gonna learn that if you don't actually go paint the house is this just a theory
 and so like doing is a massive thing of growing capacity because you have to consistently do things
 to be able to stretch you I love seeing you know what a Paul is showing up all the time and
 you know we've become great friends you know we've been hanging out for years now doing stuff together
 working growing the businesses all that kind of fun stuff it's so great to see a Paul who as he sits in
 like you know next little mass minority treats and when we open the floor but we're talking through
 things with the clients and Paul is hitting things and people are looking to Paul going who's the wise guy
 over there you know who's who's the guy who has you know like you say came in with not a lot of
 skill and is now somebody that you know are the newer clients are come around going wow this guy knows
 a whole lot of stuff because you guys constantly did you know you don't have to be heavily skilled
 to learn you have to have an ability to learn that's the key if you have the ability to learn it's
 amazing what you can become in the long run well brother if you want back 10 years ago and you were
 talking to a younger Chris camp what would you tell him oh man well first of all I would tell them not
 get so angry I do the first thing so I mean I would probably the biggest thing that I would tell him
 10 years ago would be teach more yelless I mean I've always been so passionate about
 like passionate about wanting to be great that I think at times I missed the boat on teaching people
 and I just yelled and grabbed the reins and went fix the thing where there's probably people that
 if I had stopped to teach them instead of yelling them they would probably still be a part of our
 organization and our business would probably further ahead and in a better place than it is today if I had
 done that sooner and so that would probably be the biggest thing I would say is stop you know
 and teach versus yell. Well it's the maybe a softball pitch what was the big thing that changed that
 was the big thing that changed that man so I think the biggest thing that changed it was just
 hearing and seeing from the people on our team how it affected them so when you can start recognizing
 oh I'm bringing this to the table at change is a lot yeah well brother man I'm so proud of you
 I'm a proud of the team you guys have just done a killer job walking through this success path and
 knocking all this stuff out thanks for coming on the show and helping a whole bunch of leaders and
 a whole bunch of business owners to hear that this can be done that not only can't be done but man
 there's easier paths is there anything else you want to share to all of those guys out there all those
 guys and guys that are listening. I know that last thing I would say is it's worth it like it's
 worth the struggle it's worth the pain to go through it um it just is I mean I love what I do
 I love what I do more today than I did 15 years ago. No doubt well good to have you on brother
 hopefully we'll be seeing here I think we see here in a month or so right yeah some like that some like that all
 well folks there you have it the big things I want you to take away from this is just like
 Chris shared it's worth don't give up on this if this is something that's a dream of yours if this is
 something that you enjoy yes it may be tough the key is learn grow you've got to stick to a
 process if you want to grow and succeed there's just too many things that stay too many moving parts too many
 employees depending on you to leave it to chance so you have to have people further down the path
 coaching you encouraging you challenging you and holding you accountable to the things in the business
 in life that you want to achieve so hopefully this has helped you today as always our goal is for you to
 take all this information change the leadership change your business change your life and join us on the next episode
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 you
 [BLANK_AUDIO]