 The loss art of problem solving, that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover
 that business is what you do, not who you are. Welcome to the show folks. Hope you're
 having a fabulous day wherever you are. 20th Century philosopher of science, Carl Popper,
 I don't know who Carl was, but he said he had a great saying, a great cult that we're
 involving today and that is, all life is problem solving. Now, if you're like a whole lot of
 people, that's not a very happy thought. So, borrowing from a very philosophical film that we
 quote around here all the time, which would be the princess bride, but it comes says you mock my
 pain, Wesley says life is pain princess, anyone who says otherwise is selling something.
 I could have done that with British accents. You mock my pain. Life is pain princess.
 There we go. All right, anyways, hey, listen, life is full of pain. Life has problems.
 That's something that you can be sure, but can pain in problems be something that is positive.
 We'll discover what possibilities problems could be presenting you right after this.
 Hey folks, a couple years ago I was visiting with a client and the CEO said to me, Chris,
 we're not going to hit our goal. I asked him what he meant and he said,
 "We're going to miss our three-year revenue goal coming out of Stratpland by a few months."
 I didn't realize it at first that he was having a little fun with me by saying,
 they were about to triple their company in less than three years. How freaking awesome is that.
 Folks, these are the kinds of results that businesses get by coming through our four-day Stratpland
 events. On average, we find $2.1 million worth of revenue in the next 12 months that the company was not
 planning on. This event is for all-size businesses. If you're small, medium, or large,
 it works for every single business because it's not industry-specific. It's about gaining all the
 information about all the things inside of your business that are holding you back from success
 and then giving you a plan and a process on how to walk that out and be successful in your business.
 By discovering the things that are holding you back, it helps you get to all of those goals
 that you've been planning on for a long time. If you're ready to get the perspective, you need to
 solve what's holding you and your business back so you can grow faster than you need Stratpland.
 To learn more, go to Chrissacordov.com/Stratpland. That's Chrissacordov.com/Stratpland.
 So, question for you. How do you see your problems? Do you see them as something that is good?
 Do you see them as something that is bad? Do you see them as something that you want to get out of as
 fast as you possibly can? Or do you even see them as something that you try to avoid at all costs?
 Things to think about. Successful leaders approach problems as opportunities to unlock
 not obstacles to be avoided. Marcus Rely has said, "The mind adapts and converts to its own
 purposes the obstacle to our acting. The impediment to action advances action." Think about that.
 Or you just leave it sitting there. What stands in the way becomes the way. How do you look at your problems?
 Do you see a problem in front of you as something that's going to create a new action?
 Or do you see a problem in front of you? Something that's going to stop action. As Marcus Rely has said,
 "The impediment to action advances action." Now, he's speaking about this in the positive. He could have also said,
 "Or for the lazy person, it stops the right there to their tracks." So the person who wants to avoid it because they see
 problems the wrong way. It stops them in their track, right? So here's a deal. Let's talk about adapting our minds
 to being problem solving machines. But before we do that, we get to hit some basics. Something that every
 person has to understand. Problems are inevitable. Listen, failure is inevitable. That's a fact.
 So stop trying to avoid problems. Stop sweeping them under the rug. Stop trying to not look in the
 direction of the problems. Stop trying to stop the problems. Problems are going to exist. The sooner you
 take a change of mindset, the sooner you start looking at them differently, then you can actually start enjoying
 solving problems. Now, I'm somebody who my whole life has looked at problems and asked myself the
 question, how do I fix this? How do I get around this? How do I make sure this doesn't happen again?
 If your meat sounds a lot like the ways that we solve problems here, give the five lit,
 the list of five things that we do here. So here's the second thing you need to understand. Problems
 have hard shelves, but they have soft centers. Think of those as opportunities in disguise. Right? Once
 we get through that hard shell, then it changes a whole lot of stuff. Another thing to understand is
 problems push successful people to keep growing and think differently. Now, you do not have to be
 wildly successful for you to actually grow and think differently and become more successful. Right?
 The key is if you allow the problem to push you, the push you're thinking to push your
 processing, then it will grow you to think differently. So there's a saying that we should fight the
 serpent and embrace the storm. Key is, you've got to know the difference. So here's your encouragement
 for today. Hey, stop fighting the storm that you're in right now. Stop it. Wait a second, Chris. Like
 those against everything that I think. No, you're not going to get through life without problems,
 but you are going to get through this storm. I promise. Chris, how can you make that promise? Well,
 pretty simple. You're still listening to me. You're able to listen to the show. I'm pretty darn
 sure you've had at least one or two million problems in your lifetime, right? And you're still here.
 You've made it through all of them. Right? So here's what you have to understand. For the longest
 time growing up, now again, I'm a believer. So I'm going to speak from the side of being a believer,
 but you don't have to be a believer to think this way. For the longest time, I used to pray to God that
 He would stop the situation I was in. Lord, please, this bad situation hurts, this bad situation sucks.
 Would you just stop the situation? And then God started to show me some things. I use the problems
 to grow you. I use the stress to grow you. I use the situations to grow you. How did I learn this
 stuff? Believe it or not, it's something we talk about, you know, a lot around here. And that is the
 wine growing process. When I was learning decades ago about how wine grows, I fell in love with
 the process. It became a big part of my life and teachings and things that being able to point out,
 watch what happens here. One of the big things that you learn when you're discovering
 viticulture, learning viticulture from somebody who's been doing it, and you know, been roughing up
 their hands for a long time in the process is this. Stress makes a more complex, grape. Stress,
 a grape having to fight for water makes it more complex, makes it better, makes it taste better,
 gives it better flavor, gives it better character, gives it better boldness. All of that,
 the same can be said about us. So as God showed that to me, I started to realize something.
 I need to quit asking for God to take me out of the stress and change the thing I'm asking to
 Lord help me to learn the thing you want me to learn as fast as I can. Don't stop the problem,
 don't stop the pain, don't stop the stress, help me to learn the thing that you want me to learn,
 because the learning is way more valuable than the stopping. If God stops the problem or the process
 or the stress or the obstacle and removes the obstacle, then guess what? I may not have learned.
 Well, this is a God principle that you can pretty much count on. If I don't learn by the obstacle,
 another obstacle is coming. It's not that easy. You know it's true. Somebody out there say in
 preach. Listen, if you don't learn from the obstacle, he's going to put another obstacle in your way
 or he may keep you in that process until you get it. So don't ask God to stop the process, ask him
 to teach you what it is that he wants you to know as soon as possible. For most people, what you think
 is what you feel. So it's helpful to change our thinking about the problems we're facing.
 So if we're going to solve the problem or solve them, there may be multiples and move forward,
 then there are three keys to change how you perceive your problems. So key number one,
 you have to create some level of objectivity. Now, are you going to get to complete
 objectivity on a situation maybe maybe not, right? But you can get to some level of this, right?
 Sometimes we can't see the force for the trees because we're too immersed to think clearly.
 So we got to get out of that process. There's a few things that we have to do. The first thing is
 disconnect from the problem emotionally. Folks, we get so emotionally handcuffed to the situation
 that we can't think. You've heard me say multiple times when you freak, you freeze. If you are
 freaked out, I can guarantee you you are no longer gaining quality perspective. Instead, you are now
 stuck on everything that you see right in front of you. You're now stuck on how you're going to respond to this
 problem. You're now stuck on what you're going to do about it, right? You've got to disconnect from the
 problem emotionally as much as you possibly can. How do you do this? Well, you start saying to yourself,
 this is a situation. This is a problem. This is whatever. I've got to figure this out,
 stop taking it so personally. Yeah, but Chris, what if it is really personally? I get it. I understand
 but the more you are emotionally handcuffed to the problem, the more difficult it's going to be for you
 to think logically. Now, this is just a function of your brain. When you are stuck in and go back to the
 episodes that we talked about, you know, on willpower, right? Go back to a lot of the stuff you've heard
 me teach about how your brain operates. When you are stuck in the emotional, when you are stuck in the
 desire and reward center of your brain, guess where you are not stuck in the better decision-making
 process of the prefrontal cortex. So think about that. The more emotionally you are attached to the problem,
 the less you can possibly think logically. You don't get to use your brain the best you possibly can.
 Why? Because you're operating off of emotion. So the next thing you need to do is think from a third
 person point of view, change the position, change the roles, switch it, take a look outside in. Right?
 What does it look like from a different position? Quite often, and you've heard me say this.
 Quite often, I have people take a look at a coffee canister that I have on the table as I'm teaching.
 Like, what colors it? What's black? What if I said it was blue? And I'd say you're stupid.
 What if I turned it around and you saw my side was blue? Oh, when I'd say I didn't see it from
 your point of view, that's exactly it. One of the things that you can do to get to objectivity
 is take a look from every point of view possible. Get outside of you and start asking the question,
 what is the other person seeing? How do I see it from there point of view? How do I see it from that angle?
 How do I see it from a different angle that I'm experiencing right now? Another thing you need to do is
 create a sense of urgency. Not I'm panic. Don't hear me the wrong way. I don't want you to freak out on this.
 I want you to create a sense of urgency to force your thinking into decision-making mode. So, listen,
 you can take this the wrong way if you hear this the wrong way. I am not saying freak out.
 What I'm saying is ask yourself the question, if I had to do something about this to solve this
 right freaking now, write this second. Right now, what would I do? It doesn't mean go with an answer.
 It just means it shocks your brain into thinking a different way. Now, one of the things that I do
 and I teach people a lot. Now, I am a very high-s. I'm a high-s, decently high-high. Probably about a 40-d
 and about a 25-c, but my adapted-c jumps up to 40. My brain sometimes with negative self-talk. There's
 a thing that I have to do that I've learned to get over my own negative self-talk. And I have learned
 that when I go into negative self-talk to say stop it, knock it off to shock my brain. It's amazing how
 many times I teach that to people that they look at me as if to say, well, Chris, that wouldn't work with
 me. Yes, guess it will. Try it. The next time you are just crazy giving yourself a hard time with negative
 self-talk or lies, shock your brain. Do something to create that sense of urgency of this must stop right
 now. Change your thought process. Come up with a decision right now. It doesn't mean that you go with it.
 But what it does is by doing that in my own head, I pull myself out of the emotional part of my
 brain into the logical portion. I don't stop there. You don't just say knock it off and then that's
 it. Everything gets better. You've got to go to truth. And I can only get to the truth when I'm in that
 logical side. Another thing you need to do to make sure that you get to some level of objectivity
 beware of letting feelings or prejudgments obscure the facts that are right in front of you. Oh gosh,
 folks, how many times? How many times have we allowed our feelings to override the facts that are
 right in front of us? How many times have we allowed our feelings or our prejudgments of something?
 Or, you know, something that we've already said our mind on made decisions on how many times have we
 allowed that to drive not only bad decision making, but oh my gosh, bad attitudes. Come on,
 we've all experienced that person who refuses to gain perspective and they've already got a judgment in
 our mind and they just swing this attitude as though the person from them is a horrible person or doing
 something terrible. Instead of finding out, are you even involved with this thing? You know,
 find a doubt do you know anything about this? There's a situation or many that we're actually
 to share with you in another episode where we'll share some situations where people lose their stuff
 because they immediately assume they know exactly what's going on and folks let your feelings just,
 you know, kick them to the curb or his wife would say ditch them to the curb. So that you can make
 some good quality decisions. If you can practice these things, if you can practice becoming less
 self-emerged and more self-distance from the emotional attachment, the emotional hand-cuffing,
 then you can get to a much better level of objectivity. Number two, gain, stinking perspective.
 I love it. We had a client years ago at the very first next level leadership level I
 would then I believe it was. They had come through a strap plan and one of the comments that
 will have this process where it doesn't happen with every event, but every now and then we'll have
 a process that just gets them really riled up because the communication is thinking and they just
 keep making statements and giving opinions and at some point I go, does anybody want to ask a freaking
 question? And then I'll just kind of look at me like, that's what we're doing. No, you're making
 statements. You're giving opinions and it just kind of rocks their world to go, oh my gosh,
 we've been sitting here for a half hour and nobody's asked a single question. We just keep telling each
 other what we think our opinion is. So gain some perspective, ask a freaking question, do something
 invite others into the process. You know, distance observers sometimes notice things that we don't,
 they have different and possibly greater perspectives. You made out of how the best perspective
 right now. I am somebody who gets other people's opinion. I tax the collective intelligence.
 You've heard me talk about that. That's something I realized years ago that I have very intelligent
 people around me. I should tax their intelligence because who knows it'll probably make me
 considerably smarter than I already am. So invite people in that have a different perspective than you.
 Maybe it's not better, but maybe it's different enough that it'll cause you to think something different.
 Or maybe it's considerably better than years. So here's a deal. All the time, every day I'm getting
 perspective for my team. Always asking questions. What do you think about this? How should we do this?
 Which is not because I'm looking for consensus. I'm taxing the collective intelligence. But there's a
 couple of times a year that I will deal with something that's like heavy duty stressful that I need more
 perspective. And I'll grab somebody and say, hey, let's go for a walk. And I'll lay out the situation
 and just say, what do you see? How do you see I'm responding? What am I doing? What do you think? What are your
 thoughts? How would you go about this to gain quality perspective? Right? Because it helps me to get out of
 the perspective that I currently have. And maybe a situation where I'm somewhat emotionally hand-cut. And I need
 somebody's different perspective than maybe knock my brain. Now listen, Harvard Business Review
 had a article out that talked about how leaders need multiple perspectives to get a complete picture.
 And an effective leader will zoom in and zoom out of that picture. Zooming in and zooming out
 means taking into account various angles up close, you know, versus the big picture. So the more that you
 will do this, you will take a look at the situation from up close, over on the right hand side. Go to the
 left hand side, go downstream, go upstream, whatever I'm using all kinds of analogies here. One big
 soup, the more that you will do this, then you will gain much better perspective. So be very aware
 of isolating yourself versus gaining good quality input from other people. Now don't go to people who
 want to harm you, hurt you, control you, manipulate you. That's not good quality perspective
 that you're giving somebody the opportunity to mess things up. Don't do that. Go to healthy people,
 gain better perspective. All right, we'll be back right after this with the third key to changing
 your thinking on the problems you're facing. Hey, it's Joel Fortner here. I'm the vice president
 of leadership development on Chris's team and I'll oversee our next level mastermind business coaching
 program. Most business owners and leaders like a clear path to succeed in business. They question
 whether they're making the right decisions, if they're focusing on the right things to really
 grow their business. If this is you, you need a coach in your life. Coach is helping make better decisions,
 navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively, and grow your business without sacrificing your life in your
 family. In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue
 and an average of 138% increase in net profit and regain hours of time. Our clients stay in the
 program for three and a half years simply because of the results they get. So if you're ready to run your business
 at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting, then visit ChrisSecordo.com/mastermind.
 Again, ChrisSecordo.com/mastermind today.
 Alright, the third key. You have to hunt for new options. Folks, if you're going to solve problems,
 you can't just keep doing it the same way you've done it every single time. Sometimes you've got
 to hunt for new options. Sometimes you've got to get out of your own way, right? You're likely
 obscuring your own view, especially when you solve the same problem multiple times the same way.
 Guess what? If you're continuing to have to solve the same problem, you probably didn't do it
 the right way the first time. Alright, so let's find a better way. So we've got to hunt for new options.
 That's one of the things I say around here. I tell my team, my team knows fail. I expect you to fail.
 Just figure out how not to do it the same way again. Right? So if you fail at something, fix it.
 Don't just fix it today. How do we make sure it doesn't happen again? So first thing you
 got to do is explore new possibilities. Educate yourself. Ask questions. Seek solutions.
 Don't just start with, well, this is what I've always done. In fact, the moment this is what I've
 always done pops into your head. Here's what I want you to say. Not good enough. Is there a better way?
 Yeah, but Chris, it worked the last time. Did it really? If it worked the last time, how come it's
 happening again? Right? So instead, let's find a different way. Another thing you need to do is change your
 surroundings. A change of scenery can absolutely change the way you're thinking. It can lead to a
 change of mindset. So oftentimes, like I say, I just share it with you. There are times if I'm dealing
 with something, I'll go for walk around the building. I'll go for walk down the block. I want to get out.
 I want to go do something for some folks. It really helps for them to go drive in their car. That's good,
 but I enjoy driving too much and some focus becomes on the driving. I need a way to get somewhere
 out of the situation where I can think. And if I'm not doing a good job thinking, in the situation,
 then sometimes I'll just go for walk. Go walk around the building and talk. Talk about loud with somebody.
 And many times I get to my own solution immediately, but man, once I talk and I get to hear somebody
 else as perspective, changing the surroundings, changing the scenery, many times will change my mindset.
 Another thing you need to do is discover, discover, investigate, research as if you're looking
 for the cure to a disease. Right now, if the problem that's in front of you is where we're going
 to go eat lunch today, you probably don't need to take this approach. You could probably just
 do a heck of a lot better job than that. But what if it's something really difficult? What if it's
 something painful? What if it's something that's been long lasting? Right? Take the approach as if you're
 looking for a cure for a disease, investigate the living daylights out of what you can do to solve this,
 or investigate the thing itself. That might help you as well. Lastly, on hunting for new options,
 jumping to conclusions and investing to little time greatly reduces options. Folks,
 you have to stop jumping to conclusions. Now, every single one of us has done this a bajillion times.
 But the sooner you recognize that you should gain perspective quickly instead of jumping to a conclusion,
 the sooner you start to understand, you might actually save yourself from being a motionly handcuffed
 to the situation. Think about it. When we jump to conclusions, what percentage of the time do we
 immediately get a motionly handcuffed to the conclusion? Right? So if we jump in and we're
 automatically all this thing is going to be, what is fear? Think about fear. There's two types of fear.
 The legit fear you're being chased by a lion, run. I think you're supposed to run out of no
 it's supposed to pick up a rock out of it. That's a legit fear. What's the everything else? The fear,
 the assumption of something that might happen but has not happened yet. Every single time we jump
 to conclusions, we give ourselves a great opportunity to become a motionly handcuffed to that conclusion.
 Instead, if you don't jump to a conclusion or back out of it, if you already did, the great thing is we
 can say, hold on, I don't know that that's the actual answer. I don't know that that's what's actually
 going to happen. I don't know that that's the thing I'm absolutely going to focus on my emotions.
 Then you can start following all the other things that I've explained to you in this episode.
 The three things that you need to do, the three keys to changing how you perceive your problem
 first thing you need to do is create objectivity. By the way, we're going to make a download out of all
 three of these with all of these different options, which is like 12 different things I just hit.
 Something like that, I don't know it's a bunch, but we're going to create a download for you.
 We will put that link in here as well. First thing you need to do is create objectivity
 second thing, gain quality perspective, third hunt for new options and then all those details
 under each one of those pieces. In conclusion, how do you think is how you feel?
 If you think a specific way, then that's how you're going to feel about that specific thing.
 If you want to feel differently about yourself or the problems that you're facing,
 then you've got to change something where in your thinking. You've got to change your thinking.
 Until you do change your thinking, you will not change the way you feel about it.
 The great thing is you can always change your feelings the moment you change your thinking.
 Proverbs 237 says, "For as he have fought in his soul, so is he that's young's literal
 translation. Problems are opportunities for you to learn, for you to grow, for you to discover,
 for you to improve, for you to change for the better."
 So as you're going through these problems, here's the picture I want you to have in your mind.
 The more stress that grape on that vine experiences, the stronger, the bolder,
 the more character, the more complexity it has, the best lines are made from grapes that have had
 to work through problems. Now, I don't think through the problems that didn't feel the problem.
 But they worked through the problems, right? They experienced the stress of the problem. So
 you're going through some stuff, jumping solve the problem. The sooner you fix the problem. Hey,
 high-says and high-says, listen to me. My fellow S is especially quick, shoving it into the rug.
 The sooner you get to it, the more bold, the more complex, the more brilliant, the more better you taste.
 Which just sounds strange. But anyways, problem solving is an art form that you must practice,
 but there's gold to be gathered. The obstacle in front of you is inviting you to a new way of thinking,
 acting, and being. Well, hopefully this has helped you today. Take this information,
 change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]