 The paradox that exists between the uncomfortable challenges you're facing and the good growth
 they're meant to produce.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardos Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 Hey folks, welcome to the show.
 Hope you're having a phenomenal day wherever you are.
 This month we have been talking through and are continuing to talk through, predictability
 and scale ability.
 Now the first episode of August was the art of solving problems if you did not listen
 to that go back and listen to that for 28.
 The day's episode is how challenges promote growth.
 Now this is going to be a two-parter.
 I can tell you that right now because there's a lot of great information.
 So that will be this episode and next week's episode as well.
 Now the paradox of challenge.
 The key principle which is scaling proportional to capacity, that's our aim.
 Now we discuss this already in episodes 430 and 432 on building predictability into your business
 finances.
 If you haven't heard those, go back and listen to those.
 However here's a very important key to what we're talking about today.
 We can only scale to our true capacity when we have been pursuing growth all along the way.
 When we've been keeping up with the challenges in our lives.
 Now let me, let me say that again.
 I want to make this clear.
 I use a lot in our live events or in some of our lessons a wine maker in Burgundy.
 I love what he says.
 If you've been following me for any decent amount of time, you know that I love the wine growing
 process.
 It's something we teach a lot about because so much of it is so profound to how our life is.
 Now as a believer, one thing I know is God uses suffering and struggles to grow our character.
 So what this great wine maker in Burgundy, if you give grapes all the sun and all the
 water they want, they will become lazy couch potatoes.
 Folks, we are not different.
 If we get all the stuff we want, if we get the sun, the water, whatever, we can become lazy
 couch potatoes.
 Take a look at what's happened over the last year.
 How many people do you know that given the opportunity to sit on their couch and watch TV
 or all day long or play video games or whatever, they actually took it.
 How many folks were chomping at the bit to get out of the house, but how many folks actually
 have enjoyed every bit of it?
 That's not going to help you when it comes to scaling proportionally to capacity, right?
 Because you're diminishing your capacity when you're doing that in life.
 So let me say it another way.
 One growth isn't happening.
 We aren't, and I'm talking about to us personally, then we're not being prepared for new challenges.
 Do you see the paradox?
 You don't just grow because you exist.
 You don't just grow because you breathe air.
 If we are going to grow and we're going to be ready for stuff, we have to actually be challenged.
 We need new challenges.
 We need obstacles.
 We need adversity.
 We need resistance in our life.
 We need stress.
 We need struggle.
 And for most of us, we also need suffering.
 A grape on the vine that has to suffer in struggle to stay alive becomes one of the most
 complex, one of the most bold, one of the most flavorful grapes.
 It's powerful what the outcome is.
 Now a lot of you out there go on.
 Yeah, I really don't want to be that complex.
 I don't want to be that bull.
 I don't want to be that flavorful.
 I'm fine.
 Let's just do half of that.
 Come on.
 We all need to grow.
 We all want to be better at something if not many things.
 I know for me, my wife and I, we spend a lot of time praying that God grows us more into
 the people that he wants us to be.
 The Christ followers that he wants us to be.
 With that prayer, we're very aware with what that brings along.
 A lot of times that brings struggle.
 A lot of times that brings character development.
 So we're going to talk about the paradox of challenge when we come back right after this.
 Freedom, it's so powerful.
 I felt rejuvenating almost renewed to some degree.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So I was very comfortable there.
 That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it.
 It's going to be hard.
 It's going to be even better on the other side.
 For me, it was just very refreshing.
 I want to say life giving for me.
 It really was.
 I would go to the next level of life again and probably again.
 Because it's so powerful.
 I want you to ask yourself a question.
 Could you hear the sense of hope and freedom?
 And their voice is just that.
 I want you to know that could be you.
 Look, it's easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns and unhealthy relationships.
 It's going to take some work, but yes, there is hope for you.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of self-awareness
 and freedom that they have, or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like for
 you, then head on over to Chrissacrido.com/nextlevellife.
 Whatever I think of character development, I think of when I was a kid growing up in Tahoe.
 While other families had snowblowers, our mom, my brother and I, our mom, we shuffled.
 Whenever we would ask her, "Hey, because we're shoveling before school, sometimes we're shoveling
 after school, and whatever we would ask her, "Mom, can we have a snowblower this season?"
 She'd be like, "Nope, shoveling builds character.
 Let me tell you, I am proud to see my own work ethic.
 I am proud to see that my brother will bust it as well, right?
 That we have great work ethic."
 Yeah, it does build character.
 There was a time where, so during the summer time, we shovel snowing the, and the what
 we were talking about, and the summer time we got into the woods, and we would drop trees,
 buck them into rounds, and then we bring them home and split them by hand with axes.
 And we would always say, "Mom, can we have one of those log splatters?
 Can we get one of the gas powered log splatters?"
 Finally, one year, she actually got us one, and we used it for like, "I don't know, maybe
 a week, maybe."
 And then my brother picked up the axe, and he started swinging again.
 I'm like, "What are you doing?"
 He goes, "Hey, I like the workout of swinging the axe.
 I like this better."
 That's just boring sitting there pushing the little lever to split the wood.
 So I picked up an axe, and we kept going, "Mom, take the logs, put it back."
 It's amazing the character that happens in you when you're going through situations like
 that.
 When you have to work through something, when you have to push through something, and those
 weren't struggle times.
 I mean, we were not struggling.
 There was no issues with having to shovel snow before school, right?
 Well, as long as we got up at time, what it did is it grew us.
 It developed us.
 It matured us.
 It improved us.
 It helped us to see things differently.
 It helped us to see that when something needed to get done, go get it done.
 We weren't the kind of people who sat around and went, "Well, I'll do it later.
 No.
 Not where I grew up.
 If you don't get the snow done, then the snow pile is going to put a whole bunch more
 snow in your driveway really soon."
 And it turned into eyes before you get home from school.
 And then you're taking that axe from the summertime and chopping up that ice.
 So you learn when your character is being stretched.
 Think about the many areas of life where we all face challenges.
 If you're somebody who's ever gone to the gym and left it a way, it's well, then you experience
 resistance.
 What does resistance do?
 If you spend time working under resistance, then you grow muscles.
 And we're getting tested in school.
 Now a lot of folks will say, "I suck at testing and you may."
 But guess what?
 The testing that you have gone through at some point kicks in a crud.
 I need to focus.
 I need to make sure that I'm doing this right.
 You don't suck at testing and then just continue to suck.
 Now some of you might challenge me on that and say you do, but I'm going to say you probably
 have gotten better at testing at some point in your life.
 The testing that we get when we get a driver's license at the DMV.
 Enough said right there.
 Just go down to the DMV or whatever it's called in your area and try and get your license
 renewed.
 That's a whole lot of testing right there.
 There's a whole lot of resistance right there.
 That one's just in there for the fun of it.
 Any kind of certification has requirements.
 Any type of qualification.
 Any type of diploma, well, maybe not every diploma actually has challenges.
 Some of them may not notice.
 Anything that you had to reach for in order to meet a goal has some level of challenges that
 we face.
 So think about it.
 Those challenges are instructive.
 They cause you to think.
 They cause you to process.
 They cause you to study.
 They cause you to prepare.
 They had to focus your energy in any one of those situations.
 Definitely the more serious ones.
 You had to prove yourself in any of those situations.
 So think about it.
 All of these challenges stretch us.
 They strengthen us in the process.
 They make a strain in order to obtain.
 So what was all that straining for?
 That's what we're going to talk about when we come back right after this.
 Because if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue
 when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having
 a lack of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life, it all starts with
 having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand
 the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with.
 Whether it be at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to Chrissacrittal.com/store and get your personality profile and
 personality profiles for your team today.
 Get it for your family members.
 Today, as you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to Chrissacrittal.com/store2day.
 Okay.
 So what is this purpose of challenge?
 Now you're listening to this show, you get this.
 You understand this, you're with me, but sometimes it's really great to hear it in the context
 of what I'm sharing today.
 So we could recognize there are many times we're challenged and we grow and they're not
 even things we really think about.
 We're not even things that we're focused on.
 The challenge comes.
 We grow, we move on.
 Right?
 CS Lewis said hardships often prepare ordinary people for extraordinary destiny.
 Good night.
 Let me say that again.
 As my audio engineer sitting in the room just let out a big head nod.
 Let me say that again because I really want you to soak this up.
 This is a God principle.
 Heart ships often prepare ordinary people for extraordinary destiny.
 So let me ask you a question right now.
 How much do you want an ordinary destiny compared to an extraordinary destiny?
 If you don't want your destiny to just be ordinary.
 And if you do, you probably wouldn't be listening to the show, which means that you do want
 something better than ordinary.
 You do want something extraordinary.
 Lewis goes on to say dealing with adversity, having exposure to adversity early on is very useful
 and how someone goes through life.
 I know a ton of you, if not all of you, have some of those stories like I do early on in life.
 I was being a kid swinging an axe so that we could put food on the table.
 We sold all that well.
 We didn't sell all of it.
 Obviously we kept some of it to warmer house.
 But we did that to make money.
 Shvelin that snow had to happen.
 Dealing with adversity taught me how to deal with all kinds of other things.
 One of the key things that we teach around here is how to solve problems.
 If you're not solutions minded, you're going to get stuck all along the way.
 Here's what I want you to recognize.
 Every step along the path is preparation for the challenges that you're going to encounter
 tomorrow.
 Sometimes we look at the challenge and we go, "I want out of the challenge.
 This is tough."
 But here's what we discover, especially for those of us that are believers.
 I mean, if you're not a believer, you still should be discovering this.
 That God uses that difficulty those challenges not just for today.
 Character development, growth is not just for in the moment.
 Yes, should you be growing in your character and using it right now in the midst of your challenge
 100%.
 How many times?
 Stop for just a second.
 Go back on your life.
 Look at challenges that you've experienced.
 Here's what I want you to ask.
 How much better are you at solving those things today?
 How many times do you just not even think about it because it's become just second nature for
 you, right?
 Here's what I want you to ask yourself.
 What is my knee-jerk reaction?
 One facing new challenges.
 If I shrink back, do I shy away?
 Do I shirt responsibility?
 Do I stress?
 Do I feel like, you know, like, out of control?
 Do I sabotage myself, right?
 So think about it.
 When a new challenge comes your way, how do you respond?
 Are you pushing responsibility off?
 Are you putting walls up and protecting yourself?
 Are you becoming a victim?
 Do you have victim mentality when new challenges come long?
 Or do you hit them head on?
 Do you look at the new challenge and ask yourself the question, how do I solve that?
 What do I do about that?
 I got to get through there.
 I got to bustle that wall.
 So what do I have around me to help break the wall down, right?
 So think about how you respond to new challenges, right?
 Some people, as Victor Franco says, distract themselves with pleasure.
 If a new challenge comes up, I don't want to face it.
 What Victor Franco says is, "When a person can't find a deep sense of meaning, they distract
 themselves with pleasure.
 How many times do you find yourself with a new challenge facing a new challenge?"
 And instead of hitting it head on, you find some other thing to put your focus on.
 Folks, that's all of us, right?
 I know there are times that I have distracted myself because I didn't want to face the
 challenge ahead of me.
 Think about your email inbox.
 Think about your to-do list that you should have.
 If you don't, you should be doing that at the end of everyday closing out your day.
 Think about the conflict on your to-do list, right?
 If you got 10 items and one or two of them are conflict, how do you normally talk to your
 to-do list?
 You do the eight other things.
 And if you still have time on the day to get that conflict, one or two done, then you probably
 end up reading emails, just still avoid it, right?
 A lot of us have faced that shoot.
 Every one of us has faced that, right?
 We've all faced that.
 But when you take the work ethic, when you take the, I know that this is going to grow me,
 approach to it, then you jump and install it.
 So I want you to take inventory right now.
 What are you facing right now?
 And how are you dealing with it?
 Are you hitting it head on?
 Are you shrinking away from it?
 Are you putting a plan together?
 Are you tackling it?
 And by the way, think of what we teach here, don't just go bust it, gain quality perspective.
 Get as much perspective on the new challenge as you possibly can, and then make the best
 decision.
 Don't just bust in there and install the thing and find out later on that you got to redo
 it.
 Gain is much quality perspective as you can.
 What needs to happen?
 Why is this happening?
 How did it happen?
 What are we going to do to fix it?
 All of the things that you need to do.
 So how do challenges provoke?
 Well, according to the 70/2010 rule developed by the Center for Creative Leadership, you need to
 have three types of experiences in order to learn and grow as a leader.
 70% are challenging experiences and assignments.
 20% are developmental relationships.
 10% is training and coursework.
 So look at that.
 In order to grow, you need 70% of your experiences to stress and challenge you.
 Guys, I'm going to tell you, I agree.
 Do I think you need 70% of your challenges to stress and grow?
 I don't think you need to.
 So my gosh, the more challenge and stress you have, the more you respond too much.
 Obviously if the number was 90, we would have a problem.
 Too much stress and challenge can cause you to just coil back.
 But too little really doesn't cause you to solve a whole lot.
 If you can feel comfortable with the challenges you have, then you might actually not spend
 a lot of time in growing.
 So challenges are crucial to growth and development.
 If we don't have stress or strain or stimulus in a challenging way, then we stagnate.
 Think about that.
 So can you imagine yourself being at a place where you crave new challenges in life?
 And listen, you're not hearing me suggest that you need to push everything aside and go face
 challenges in life, right?
 You have plenty of challenges today in all aspects of your life, or at least you should.
 So I'm not saying, hey, go make all of your worth be focused on accomplishments and facing challenges.
 What I'm saying is find the challenges that grow you.
 Find the stresses and the strains that are actually going to make you a better version of you.
 President Theodore Roosevelt wrote a series of essays that he called the Strenuous Life.
 And one of the things he said is this, "I wish to preach not the doctrine of
 ignoble ease, but the doctrine of the Strenuous Life, the life of toil and effort of labor and
 strife, to preach that highest form of success which comes not to the man who desires merit easy
 peace, but to the man who does not shrink from danger, from hardship or from bitter toil, and
 who out of these wins the splendid ultimate triumph."
 Think about that, folks.
 What do you want in life?
 Do you want it to be easy?
 Do you want it to be challenged less?
 Do you want it to not have stress and strain?
 Or do you want to pick up that kind of life that creates strains so that you strive so that you're
 able to labor so that you're able to do the things that create a splendid ultimate triumph
 in your life?
 So where are you struggling right now?
 Where's the pain of transformation in your life?
 How can you embrace it not so that you hold on to the strain but so that you
 learn how to work through it?
 Next week I'm going to give you three tips for greater growth so do not miss it until then.
 Spend some time identifying where God is leading you to grow through the struggle you're
 experiencing and if you need help reach out.
 We're here for you.
 Send us an email, send us something to podcast@crystallicardab.com.
 You're here to help that's why the show exists.
 In fact, you know people who need to be listening to this do us a favor share it like subscribe
 all that kind of fun stuff help us to help as many people as possible get this kind of
 change in their life.
 So let me recap every step along the path is preparation for the challenges you'll encounter
 tomorrow.
 We should lean into instead of shying away from challenges but how we're going to talk about that
 in part two.
 Folks I hope this has helped you today as always take this information change your leadership,
 change your business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]