 Part two of how challenges promote growth. That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Accordo Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 Hope you're having a fantastic day.
 We are having a great day, a little little overcast, but you know, the
 sense but out. So we're enjoying what we got.
 Today we're talking, we're continuing on with our discussion from last week
 on how challenges grow us, right? How stress and strain grow us. So here's the thing,
 facing and even embracing the challenges of life is an important part of living a full life.
 Notice I did not say an easy life, right? It's a full life.
 Easy life just doesn't exist, right? Even those who are trying to avoid challenges will eventually
 face challenges by not knowing how to handle challenges. So if you want to have a full life, not an easy
 life, not a complicated life, not a life, not really worth living, then you need to learn how to face
 and even embrace challenges, right? We talked about this in the last episode. God always uses
 challenges stress, strain to grow us, to grow our character. So we need to learn how to find
 joy in the journey, not just in the destinations. I am guilty of this. My gosh, I am guilty of this.
 I am somebody who so looks forward to getting to the destination.
 And so I'm also somebody who will bust it like crazy to get to the destination. I don't have a
 problem and bust it. I don't have a problem in making things happen, but I will tell you as I get older.
 God starts throwing some stumbling blocks in my way, or maybe he's been doing them whole life. And as
 I was younger, maybe I could just jump higher. But he throws some stumbling blocks in my way to help
 me to look up and go, "Oh, that's right. I should be enjoying this part. I should be enjoying the
 journey." Right? I'm not somebody who struggles like crazy with adversity. I'm not somebody who
 struggles like crazy with challenges. I have them. A lot of them. And I solve a lot of them. But I will tell
 you, there's times when I can't solve stuff or I'm struggling to solve stuff, that those are times
 I'm usually recognizing that God's not wanting me to solve it. He's wanting me to focus on him. He's
 wanting me to grow closer to him. He's wanting me to see and learn something, right? So I tend to be somebody
 who does not pray for God to stop the adversity in my life. I tend to be somebody who says, "Hey,
 don't stop this. Teach me how to get through it as fast as possible. Teach me the things you want me to learn."
 And when that happens, I find a lot of joy. We need to find joy in adversity.
 While you're in adversity, right? We also need to find joy in challenges because the
 challenges absolutely grow. It's not difficult for us to understand the, when you challenge your muscle,
 when you give resistance to your muscle, you're going to grow muscle. Right? It's long
 sure. You're also putting a decent nutrition in. Then you're going to grow muscle, right? It's not
 difficult for us to understand that. It's the same concept when it comes to your character.
 It's the same concept when it comes to your intelligence. It's the same concept when it comes to your
 family, your relationships. We need to find joy in the challenges. James 1, 2, 3, 4 says,
 "Consider it pure joy. My brothers and sisters, whenever you face trials of many kinds. Why?
 Because you know that the testing of your faith produces perseverance." So,
 well, let perseverance finish its work so that you may be mature and complete, not lacking anything.
 Now, I threw in the wine this morning. But how powerful is that? Consider pure joy in my
 brothers and sisters, whenever you face trials of many kinds because you know that the testing of your
 faith produces perseverance. Let perseverance finish its work so that you may be mature and complete,
 not lacking anything. The more challenges I have and the more I'm able to stand in those challenges,
 when the bigger challenges come along, I'm able to stand in those. That's the real growth.
 Next up, what paralyzes us and what to do about it right after this.
 Freedom, it's so powerful. I felt rejuvenating. I'm all renewed. The summer degree.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment. So,
 it was very comfortable there. That had a really big impact on me. It's going to be worth it.
 It's going to be hard. It's going to be even better on the other side. For me, it was just
 very refreshing. And I want to say life giving for me and really was. You know, I would go to
 the next level of life again and probably again and probably again because it's so powerful.
 I want you to ask yourself a question, could you hear the sense of hope and freedom and their
 voice is just then? I want you to know that could be you. Look, it's easy to get trapped and old habits,
 negative thought patterns and unhealthy relationships. It's going to take some work, but yes,
 there is hope for you. If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation,
 the same kind of self-awareness and freedom that they have or maybe you're just curious what the
 process would look like for you, then head on over to Chrissacordo.com/nexlevellife.
 [Music]
 So, what is the thing that paralyzes us? Well, we have a saying around here, when you freak,
 you freeze. When you freak, you freeze. Ask any deer in the headlines. Right?
 Fear has a paralyzing effect. That is a fact.
 Right? According to a psychology today article, the truth is that staying in your comfort zone,
 particularly when you do so out of fear is not always exactly comfortable.
 But avoiding challenges, we don't have the opportunities to learn about ourselves. We feel
 trapped as if we were leading a life that is not true to ourselves. Think about that.
 When you try to avoid conflict, challenges, stress, struggle. When you try to stay in your comfort zone,
 there's an amazing thing that happens. We feel like we're not being our authentic selves.
 Why? Because we know better. We know we can't actually accomplish those things, right?
 We know we can't actually make it through struggles. We know we can make it through strains.
 We know that. And so there's this little piece of betrayal that we feel. And for some people,
 it might be a big piece of betrayal, right? When we feel like we're not living our authentic self,
 we feel like we're betraying ourselves. So, how can we see challenges as opportunities? Well,
 we've got three tips for you today. The first one is you need to be heavily focused on
 catching your knee jerk reaction. Yes, that was my drum roll on the on the desk here.
 Catching your knee jerk, what is your knee jerk reaction? Now, talked about this for just a few
 seconds in the last episode, but I want to really focus on this right now. I want to emphasize
 when challenges come along, how do you respond? I will tell you that there are times that my wife likes
 to point out that when I don't see the spider that's crawling on my arm, she knows that when I do
 actually pick it up, I'm going to jump out of my chair like a little kid. It is going to freak me out,
 right? I don't like spiders. I just don't like spiders. I don't like them. What's my knee jerk response
 when it's crawling on me? Jumping about 15 feet to the other direction, right? So, that is my knee jerk reaction.
 How do you face challenges? It's that it's just looking at it and flicking it off with my finger.
 I try to get away from it as fast as I possibly can. But the truth is, it's probably jumping with
 me that 15 feet and it's still there and I still got to solve my problem. So, when a challenge comes
 along, do you do the same thing? When something difficult comes along, do jump about 15 feet away from it?
 Do you recoil from the adversity, right? Now, think about this. A lot of times inside,
 we will have this huge response when adversity comes along of, oh my gosh. Oh no no no no no no
 don't let this happen. No no I'm I'm I'm going to be a horrible person now. I'm going to not be worthy. I'm
 going to whatever we go to these feelings of what it's going to be like to go through this adversity.
 Think of what fear is. We talked about fear just a second ago. When you freak you freeze,
 right? What is fear? Fear is the anticipation unless you're being chased by something that's
 going to eat you and you can see that it's a fact. The fear that I'm talking about is the fear of what's
 going to possibly happen, what might happen or what might not happen at all, right? What is fear?
 It's the anticipation of something bad happening. It hasn't even happened yet. So what happens when we face
 adversity? A lot of times the first thing we can do is a knee jerk reaction is a sum that it's
 going to be horrible. Oh my gosh. This thing's happening. Everything's going to fall apart.
 Nobody's going to like me. People are going to be mad at me. I'm going to screw this thing up.
 Whatever it is, what is that knee jerk reaction that you tend to have when a challenge comes along?
 When adversity comes along, do not recoil. The moment you recoil from it and the moment you start
 that negative self-talk you're losing. You're losing the battle.
 Right? Whenever you focus on your worth trying not to lose worth in the situation, trying to protect
 yourself, trying to defend yourself, whatever it is, all of that time is time that you could actually
 be spending on fixing the problem, solving the adversity, walking through the process.
 So one of the first things I want you to do is catch that knee jerk reaction of
 recoiling from adversity. Another knee jerk reaction is not seeing the opportunity.
 This is a big one. I dare say most of the time we fail to see the current adversity as opportunity.
 How many times do we get through something that sucks only to go, wow, that actually worked out really well.
 Wow, look at what that did. Wow, I'm actually happy that that happened.
 So when we are focused on us, when we are focused on self-protection, when we are focused on
 recoiling, what we miss out on is, hey, what is the opportunity that's actually in front of me right now?
 What can I do about this? How can I solve the problem? How can I fix this? How can I learn and
 grow from this? The other piece that can happen in knee-jerk reactions is that we don't experience
 the joy of the growth. For me, and like I say, for me in my wife, that's something that we
 pray for a lot. There are times, this is a matter of fact that we've been very tired, not too
 terribly long ago, that in my prayer with Heather, I'm praying and praying and praying and then I go and
 and Lord increase our prayer life. And I want bull, that just came out and I knew everything inside of me.
 It was like God was just waiting for that to come out or maybe he was drawing it out of me.
 But I knew the moment that left my mouth. I said amen and I looked at Heather and we both just
 went well. That just came out and for the next three or four days, problem after problem, after problem hit,
 we knew it was coming. We were completely aware that it was going to happen. We had a truck engine
 go out, you know, one of our vehicles, the engine went out, we had all these little things that were
 problem. Actually, it's not a little thing. We had to buy a new engine. We had all these things that were
 popping up and it's so funny because as they happened, we would turn to each other and just go, well,
 great prayer there. You asked for it. Here it is. And sure enough, we didn't recoil from it.
 We didn't struggle in it and go, oh, whoa, is us. We're victims now. We looked at this and guess what we did.
 Prayed. We prayed more. These problems hit. It was only about three or four days, but it was a long
 four days. But I promised you it increased our prayer life. It worked. We spent more time with God.
 We thought we'd done a halfway decent job up into that point and we ended up spending a lot more time with
 God. So here's the thing. It actually became a joyful thing to walk through it and pray and then watch
 him solve the problems. Because he actually solved the problems in great ways. Things that worked out,
 things that work towards our things that work to our benefit. So guys, understand that there can be great
 joy and there can be great growth right now. That stuff doesn't have to happen two years on the back
 side of your situation. It can happen in the moment. So catch your knee jerk reaction. Number one.
 Number two, allow yourself to fully experience. So I want you to embrace the situation. I am not
 saying that I want you to love that you're going through something painful. I am not saying that I want you to
 hold on to the thing. So it stays a crappy situation. Maybe it's not even a crappy situation. Maybe it's just
 a tough one. I'm saying that I want you to embrace the situation for what it is. When you do, instead of being
 a victim, instead of running away from it, instead of complaining to 17,000 people on Facebook,
 you'll actually face it. You'll actually want to solve it. When you embrace the situation just as it is,
 you'll actually want to try and work through it. If you become a victim, if you become self-protective,
 if you become defensive, then you're not actually going to spend a lot of time on solving the problem.
 You're going to spend a lot of time on complaining about the problem. I keep saying problem,
 the adversity, the challenge. Let me use that. Let me say that instead. Jeez. It's even
 great in our minds. It's a problem. It's a challenge. It's a problem. No, not necessarily. Another
 piece of allowing yourself to fully experience your challenge is don't label it as bad or hard or awful,
 or as I kept doing a problem. Don't label it because it may actually be good. And while it may be
 hard, it actually may be easy as you get in there and try and solve it. And while it may seem awful,
 it actually may turn out to be fantastic. So don't immediately go in and label what it is because when
 you do, the last thing you're going to want to do is fully experience the challenge. So look at
 it as an opportunity. Look at it as something that can be good. Look at as a growth process. Look at
 it as character building. Look at it as a teaching tool, a training whatever it is, and try to fully
 experience the situation. The other thing is when you have an attitude that it's okay to experience
 challenges, then you will realize this is a part of real life. This is real life. Real life has challenges.
 Real life has adversity. Real life has stuff that sucks on the moment, but turns out to be phenomenal in the end.
 So if you're going to fully experience your challenge, your adversity, or whatever,
 recognize that it's okay. This is a part of real life. All right. When we come back, the third tip
 for greater growth. Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time,
 then you know the number one issue when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to
 friendships, is having a lack of high quality communication. To make sure that you are absolutely
 winning in every aspect of your life, it all starts with having great communication. The best way to
 get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand the personality style
 of the folks that you're spending the most time with. Whether it be at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to Chrissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and
 personality profiles for your team to date. Get it for your family members. Today, as you go through
 that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate. Go to Chrissacrittle.com/store2day.
 Okay, we're back with the number three tip for greater growth. When it comes to challenges, when it comes
 to experiencing adversity, when it comes to stress, strain in your life. Number three is
 learn from the situation. Guys, this is a big one. If we're going to grow,
 then we can't just go through the situation. I am somebody who can look back on my life
 and see that there are many challenges that I just got my butt through. That I wasn't focused on
 learning from. I was just glad to make it through it. There are times in my young life where I
 killed it on things. I solved things. I got through things. Then there are sometimes, I can see.
 I can look back into those days and see really super painful situations that I just did not like.
 I just wanted to get through it. I wanted to make it through. There are times that I was just glad to get through.
 I didn't stop with a pencil and paper and write down 14 things I learned from this situation.
 I was just glad to get through. Probably most of those had something to do with heartache or heartbreak
 being used or treated badly by people. Sometimes you get in situations, you're just like,
 I just want to get through this. I just want to make it through it. But here's something that you can do
 if you're focused on it. If you're focused on learning from the situation, you can discover some
 amazing things in your life like where you currently are in that moment with your own capabilities.
 What are your capabilities to solve, to walk through, to create a greater opportunity, to turn this
 thing around and make it phenomenal? What are your capabilities in the moment? Do you know how to get
 through this situation? Do you have the wisdom and the knowledge? The understanding. Do you have
 the ability to use this to help somebody else? When you're focused on learning, it's a great situation
 for you to look at and go, "Do I even know what I'm doing? Can I solve this? Do I have the right
 information? Do I have the ability to get through this?" I am somebody who solves things for a living.
 But I've got an experience in my life when a loved one had a brain aneurysm, a ruptured brain aneurysm,
 where when it happened in the moment, I did not know how to solve it. I couldn't solve it. I'm not
 a doctor. I'm not a brain surgeon. I've never been played on a TV before. I stood there in this moment
 and I'm going, "I don't know what to do. I don't know how to solve it. I can't just fix this." I can help you out
 if you fell off a bike and skin journey. I can help you out if you broke something. I can help you
 in all kinds of situations. I can help you out of a struggles that you're experiencing in life
 or worth issues or controlling people in your life or you being a victim. I can help you with all
 kinds of stuff in life. But every now and then something comes long where you have to look at yourself
 and go, "I don't have these answers. I don't know what to do." And praise God, the only option was
 get experts who do right now. 911. So a great thing that helps you in the growth from challenges
 from adversity is learning what is my current capability. Another piece of that is, what is my capacity?
 Can I do this by myself? Can I solve this? Maybe I've got the knowledge, the wisdom, the know-how,
 but do I have the capacity to make it happen? And where do I need to increase my capacity? So
 two great pieces of that is, do I have it? There are things that we are trying to do with growing homes
 that are a big plot of land that we're trying to build things up to help people have even greater
 experiences of healing and greater experiences through next-level life or through events. There's
 all kinds of things that are going on right now in my life and God has helped me to see, you know,
 while I'm always somebody who taxes the collective intelligence likes to get people to
 fill in and help out. There are some things that got to showing me you don't have this current
 capacity. You can't do all of this with what you have as far as capacity, which has caused me to
 turn to him so many times and go Lord, you know I can't do this on my own. And by my on my own, I mean
 with the current capacities that I have. Right? Team stuff that we're doing, you know,
 everybody's here is busy. You know I can't do this by myself. You've got to send more people.
 You've got to touch the hearts of more people that you want to be a part of this.
 Right? That you want to bring because my capacity, because I currently don't have the capacity to
 make it all happen. So it is created yet again a great opportunity for me to turn to God and go,
 what is the thing that you're going to do, Lord? How are you going to tackle this? How are you going
 to make this happen? And praise God, I look forward to seeing it. He's already doing certain things
 that have just blown me away. Just blown me away. That's who he is. Gosh, he's such a, such a
 God of love. Another piece of learning from the situation is determine what influences you need
 in order to develop in this area. Guys, this is a big one. This is a big piece of this puzzle.
 So many of us and I know I'm speaking to a lot of you stubborn entrepreneurs out there who wanted to
 become entrepreneurs because you didn't want people telling you what to do. I get it. I understand
 but you're here with us. You're following us. You're listening to this, right? You need quality
 influences in your life that can help you develop in the area that you're struggling in.
 You need quality influences in your life that don't want to hurt you that don't want to take you down
 a notch or two, but instead want to help you get the tools in place so that you can develop and grow in this.
 So this is a great opportunity to learn from the current situation that you're in or situations
 by asking yourself, where can I go to develop in this and getting through this and growing through this?
 Because if it's happened today, there's a really good chance it's going to happen again or some different
 version of it, so how do I grow in this? So learning from the situation is just absolutely paramount,
 right? Otherwise it's a waste of time. So question for you. Is your life growing at a pace consistent
 with the new challenges that you're facing? Think about that. Is the whatever the challenges are?
 No matter how big, how small, how few, how many is your inner life growing at a pace that's
 consistent with handling those, with growing in those, with being able to develop better character
 to handle situations, right? One thing we're very aware of is that you wouldn't have met at this far
 and found out what you were made of without challenges. But what are you doing to make sure that
 you're growing at a pace that will either be consistent with or ahead of? I'm somebody who loves to continue
 to grow beyond and be prepared for when the time comes. For those of us that are believers,
 that's actually something God pushes us to do. Be prepared for when stuff happens.
 Psychologists Shilam Argain says, it is often during the most challenging times when there is the
 greatest opportunity to redefine yourself. So to recap what we've learned today, one challenges are guaranteed,
 they're going to happen. You can't hide from them. It's going to happen. And if you're able to
 avoid the challenge, then by avoiding it, it's going to create a bigger challenge. Number two,
 their purpose is to provoke, provoke growth, character growth, capacity capabilities. Number three,
 your growth is up to you. How you choose to grow is up to you. You can tell you, it is something
 that for me is a daily focus. How do I grow today? Especially for me, Bob will study as a huge
 part of that, prayer life is a huge part of that. But every day I focus on how do I grow today?
 What can I put in that's going to grow me today? That's what I want you to think about. Your growth is up to you.
 Well folks, I hope this is helped you today. If it has, let me know, drop me note podcast at
 christlacrittle.com. Also, do me a huge favor. I'm asking for a big favor. Would you go and like
 these episodes? Would you go leave a comment on these episodes? Our goal is to help every person
 to discover this information and to help them change their lives. And when you do that, not only
 are you helping us, but you're helping them as well. Also, if you know people in your circles that
 you need to share this with and share it with them, send it on over to them. As always, we want you
 to take this information. We want you to change your leadership. We want you to change your business.
 And most importantly, we want you to change your life. And join us on the next episode.
 [Music]