 If you want to build predictability into your finances, it takes diligence and perseverance.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show, where we discuss leadership and life, and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 We are on part two of building predictability into your business finances.
 These are not back to back. We had a phenomenal interview with Chris Camp last week.
 If you have not listened to that, you need to go back, listen.
 Here's what we're trying to accomplish with these episodes on building predictability in your
 business. You're not going to be able to scale well. I'm not saying you can't scale, but I'm
 the guy people come to when scaling ends up sucking really badly.
 I'm the guy people come to and go, man, we did all these things, we grew in numbers,
 but man, not only have we plateaued, but now we're taking it down to her, because for some reason,
 things are just not going the way that we thought, well, there's reasons for that.
 If you've not listened to the Chris Camp episode, go back and listen to that.
 Listen to how well he scaled the business. Business is, he's in a phenomenal position now.
 Unless because he's done things with perseverance, he's done things with predictability.
 Many more other P words, these two episodes have more P words than there's a whole lot of P in here.
 Anyways, yes, Brian left it on the episode. So practical examples, marketing and so.
 So if you're in the marketing system, we know that if we invest a certain amount of money
 and we pull these specific levers and we utilize these outlets and we SEO stuff and we use platforms
 in it, etc. If we produce X number of leads, then we can predict we should be able to predict X number of sales.
 Now, if it can be one for one, man, let's sit down and talk because I'd love to know how you put
 that system together. But usually what happens is when you're doing a lead generation sales system is,
 we generate X number of leads. Let's say, I don't know, it's 100 leads, right? We do that because we've spent
 so much time making so many phone calls. So let's say we generated 100 leads, which is fantastic or,
 I don't care, maybe it's 10. Maybe we generate those 10 leads because we made 100 phone calls, right?
 And out of that 100 phone calls, we got 37 yeses. And out of those, some of those were brand new and
 some of them were repeat clients, so really that breaks our average down on the new leads to a smaller number,
 right? And so maybe that breaks it down to us having 10 quality new leads that we can go after new business for.
 Now, that all of that was just made up. So, you know, don't hold me to those specific numbers. But you get the point.
 What does that tell me that if I make 100 phone calls and it's probably going to be more than that for 10 leads?
 But let's just say it works out that way. If I make 100 phone calls, I get 37 yeses. I have this percentage of new clients in this
 percentage of repeat clients that I should be able to end up with this percentage of brand spanking new clients that I can move forward with.
 And maybe even possibly this percentage of repeat clients is consistent as well. All of that helps me to predict my sales in the business.
 All of that and that's just one marketing aspect. This is just one sales aspect actually. All of that helps me to know that if I continue this process,
 if I can make 100 calls a day, if I can get 37 yeses a day, which again, would be phenomenal, then I should have 10 brand spanking new clients a day.
 What if it's a week? Okay? Then if I make, you know, maybe I'm making, you know, 500 phone calls to get 37 yeses to get 10 brand new clients.
 Whatever it is, but it creates a predictability. So, that's a practical example utilizing the sales process, right?
 If we do that every single where in our business, now we can really start predicting. We can predict other income streams.
 We can predict other levers that we need to pull when we do this, this creates this over here, right?
 When we push this button over here, this creates this over here. And by doing so, it gets us to a greater understanding of money we should make.
 We have no we should make. Well, we don't stop there. So, if we continue this and we do it in the expense side, then we really start saying, "Where are fixed expenses?
 Where are variable expenses? When do we have highs and lows? Do we have stuff that's seasonal?
 We start really looking at what does it take to systematize our expenses as well, so they can become incredibly predictable.
 It's the systemization of your internal process that allows you to see beyond the day to day.
 So, when we come back, we're going to talk about what it looks like to win at accurate forecasting.
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here. I'm the Vice President of Leadership Development on Krissist Team, and I'll oversee our next level mastermind business coaching program.
 Most business owners and leaders like to clear path to succeed in business.
 The question whether the making the right decisions, if they're focusing on the right things to really grow their business.
 If this is you, you need a coach in your life. Coach is helping make better decisions, navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively,
 and grow your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue, and an average of 138% increase in net profit, and regain hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3 and 1/2 years, simply because of the results they get.
 We're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting.
 And visit Krissacordo.com/mastermind.
 So, 3 rules that I'd like you to use when creating predictability.
 These are important things to follow because without them, it makes it almost impossible.
 The first thing you must know, the first rule you have to follow is you have to know your current state.
 Now, I'm not talking about the state that you live in, which may be the state of confusion.
 I'm talking about the state of your business, right?
 You have to understand where your business currently is.
 I cannot tell you. So, if you're sitting there going, I'm pretty sure I know, or, man, I don't really know.
 Guess what? You're not alone. Folks, so many business leaders, so many business owners,
 really do not actually understand where their business is right now.
 Instead, they're just happy that things keep moving forward.
 Which, again, makes it only predictable to the, while we're still winning.
 But we don't know how. You've got to measure it. You have to define it.
 You have to take inventory of it, right? You've got to take a look at your whole business and say,
 "Where are we with everything?" Now, obviously, there's a ton of details that go with that.
 But I want to hit the things that keep you from doing so.
 For some of you, fear is the biggest reason.
 Fear of what you're going to find out.
 Fear that you may discover that things aren't as good as you think they are.
 Fear that you may discover that you don't know what you're doing.
 That's a huge fear for leaders.
 We don't want people to find out that we're friends. Guess what?
 There are already nowhere frauds, right?
 We've got to know that we're frauds from time to time when it comes to leading that,
 and by that what I mean is, is that there's times we don't know what the answers are.
 The sooner you can get to the place of being okay with not knowing the answer,
 and not having the answer, the sooner you can find out better answers.
 The sooner you can free yourself up to actually go gain perspective, right?
 The sooner you can free yourself up to go measure stuff, to find stuff, inventory stuff.
 So, if fear is keeping you from really knowing the current state of your business or the current state of your team,
 depending upon what role you're in, then you've got to crush that.
 It will continue to hold you back and keep you from being in a place where you can predict what's going to happen in the future.
 Right? Another thing.
 Trusting others, many of you trust other people to tell you the state of your current business.
 For some of you, it's trusting a CPA.
 Listen, most CPAs are fantastic, right?
 But there are some odd balls out there that actually don't do a really good job advising their clients.
 And many times they're just flat wrong.
 Like I remember, I had a client who had a CPA who kept saying,
 "You have to hit 7% growth every single year."
 And when I asked him, "Where's he pulling the number from? Where's he getting that?"
 He's like, "He doesn't actually have one." He says, "That's just what you should be doing."
 And there's nothing behind that. There's literally nothing behind that. He just says,
 "That's a really good number of growth every year."
 "That doesn't even make any sense."
 "That has nothing to do with a specific business."
 He may be he's pulling something from something industry-wise somewhere,
 but that's not somebody you want to listen to.
 You want somebody who can actually look at your business and go, "Here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, do these things."
 These are areas that are lacking. These are areas you can grow in. These are areas that are suffering.
 These are areas that are doing phenomenal. You need to understand this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this.
 Don't just trust somebody to tell you what's going on.
 Dig in, ask questions, find out, understand, learn the numbers.
 If you've never done that before, then get what somebody who actually has the desire to teach people,
 how to know this stuff. Another thing is lack of prioritization.
 You will not know your current state if it's just not that important to you.
 If everything else is more important, if the tasks that you have today are more important,
 if seeing your bottom line is, you know, in the black and considering that's being winning without knowing how you got there,
 is more important than you're not going to prioritize getting in there and learning where you are.
 For a lot of you owners and a lot of you leaders, one of the biggest mistakes you can make is not digging into your team
 and finding out where they say the business is or the team is.
 It is incredibly powerful when you spend time with the smart people that you hired, if they're not smart, what did you hire them,
 and find out their perspective of where we are as a team or as a business? So here's the fun fact.
 If you don't know where you are, then you cannot see where you're going.
 Think about that.
 All right, number two rule. You must know your capabilities.
 You have got to get to a place where you understand your capacity.
 As a leader, your capacity as a owner, your capacity as a team, your capacity as a business, whatever it is,
 you've got to get to a place where you understand the capabilities of everything.
 When you know that if you do X, you should receive Y, then you can really start predicting X and Y.
 You can start predicting which levers to pull, which buttons to push, the things that you need to do to create a bigger business,
 more profitability, more product sales, more clients, whatever that is.
 So the sooner you can know your capabilities, the sooner you can start testing, the sooner you can start measuring,
 the sooner you can start optimizing the very things that you're doing.
 And that's when we just rinse and repeat, right?
 When we know that we pull these levers and we get this type of sales or this type of profits,
 crud, how many more times a day can we do that?
 But you're going to have to find out what are those factors because probably at least one of them is going to point to an area that
 if you do this thing, then you continue to grow.
 So we've got one of our clients that they're what we call X-factor, and we still that probably from Jim Collins, I'm sure somewhere along the line.
 When you look at their X-factor, it's adding crews.
 They're in the construction industry.
 So every time they can add a full crew, they can literally predict their profitability going forward with that crew.
 They've got it nailed down that well.
 Everything else falls in line.
 They just got to pull together great crews.
 And when they do that, they can start really predicting sales.
 They can start predicting where they're going to be after a while.
 How much that crew is going to be able to accomplish all of those pieces.
 So experience yields information.
 Information is critical to forecasts.
 We're going to hit number three. The number three rule when we come back right up to this.
 Hey leaders. This is Joel Fortner.
 VP, a leadership development at Chris L'Cardos Company.
 I have some questions for you.
 Do you as a leader feel like you are caught up in a crazy cycle of stress and task that never ends week to week?
 Do you ever have to deal with tough conversations with team members?
 And you sit at home the next day the night before worried about how's it going to go?
 What am I going to say? What are they going to say?
 Can I think fast enough on my feet? Is it going to be a total failure?
 Are you experiencing culture problems or that stuff that just breaks down trust and unity on your team?
 Well if you can relate to any of this, this is a pretty typical leadership story in situation.
 Here's the thing though.
 It doesn't have to be that way and we can help you solve these things.
 We can help you become the leader that solves these problems and leads 13 to greater success.
 I want to introduce you to the key leaders program.
 This is an ongoing leadership development program that gives you the less-entrak coaching and accountability you need to become the leader you can become.
 To actually implement what you're actually learning in this program.
 Things fall apart without great leadership and intentionality.
 If you want to solve the problems that are holding you back from being a great leader, we can help you with this program.
 Get in touch with Joel at ChrisLecordo.com.
 We're back and we're talking about the number 3 rule for creating predictability.
 Again, there's so much to all of this.
 But if you will hit these 3 rules, you'll be amazed at how well you'll do.
 Number 3 is calibrate accordingly.
 One of the big pieces that people leave out is the understanding that you can't just put things in place and expect them to be okay.
 You can't just put things in place and expect them to rock on forever.
 You're going to need to review the things that are going on.
 You're going to need to find out how well things are working.
 You're going to have to find out if things have broken.
 You're going to have to find out if there's things that you can change.
 And then when you gain enough quality perspective on the system, the process, then you optimize the daylight set of it.
 You prune the vine.
 Right?
 If you don't know what that means, what it means is that when you have great grapes on the vine,
 if you will prune the vines back, then it'll cause more grapes to grow.
 And if you do what's called dropping fruit, getting rid of some stuff that's unneeded, right?
 So a fantastic wine maker will have a tendency to drop one out of every three bunches.
 Well, of course, that doesn't make any sense.
 Why is he cutting down the amount of wine he can make?
 Because those two bunches that remain pick up the extra nutrients, the extra complexity,
 the extra boldness that that third bunch, if you want to call it that, that they dropped to the ground,
 actually would have taken.
 So now the vine feeds the other two bunches. Why is that important?
 Because by removing something that's not needed, you can make a way better wine,
 which you can charge way more money for.
 So think about it this way. You keep the three bunches.
 You can make a $15 bottle of wine.
 You drop one bunch, you can make a $45 bottle of wine.
 So it works, right?
 So, well, it doesn't always work.
 But great wine makers that have great farmers making great grapes,
 allow you to make great wine.
 How did they get there continuously optimizing the process over and over and over again?
 So here's the bottom line, folks.
 "Predictability is built on consistency.
 It's built on diligence. It's built on experience.
 The more predictability gets created.
 So in other words, the more you are proactive, the more you focus on this,
 the more you create predictability, the further ahead you can see inside of your business.
 The further ahead you can see inside of your business, the better decision you can make.
 The lesser decision you can make.
 The less you'll spend time waiting for your bottom line to increase because you keep doing the same thing.
 And the more you'll proactively do things to increase that bottom line way faster than just sitting around winning and waiting.
 So make, hopefully that makes sense.
 The further out you can see, the better off it will be for you and your team.
 No matter what the fluctuations in the market may come.
 I want to share a story.
 We just had Chris Camp on again.
 I pointed out at the beginning of the show.
 The episode that was right before this.
 If you did not hear that go back and listen to that.
 But I wanted to share a story of Chris's president, which is West Dill,
 who took over a lot of the operations and Chris has elevated himself to a great place.
 Got multiple businesses going on.
 He's leading and energizing those leaders incredibly well.
 So we always have our clients for our next level of mastermind.
 Give us some wins that are going on inside of the business.
 And this is what West sent in in the first quarter.
 This is in March of 2021.
 So here's what he said.
 Yesterday, best February and company history.
 Gross profit margins of 35% one year to date after COVID arrived.
 So folks in 2020, they knew the foundation was being set.
 They knew that 2021 would be phenomenal.
 They have such a great handle on it right now.
 Why?
 Because they have great measurements because they have great tools because they're no longer guessing what the future holds.
 They are literally proactively building it in.
 They are literally building in predictability.
 That is what I want you to do.
 That is what I want you to utilize this information for.
 Why?
 Once again, you will make your best decisions when you have the clearest picture of not only where you are,
 but where you're going.
 Well, folks, hopefully this has helped you today and seriously.
 If you have questions, send them in podcast@christacrister.com.
 If any of this is confusing and is not making sense, reach out to us.
 We'll help you to understand it.
 As always, take this information.
 Change your leadership.
 Change your business.
 Change your life.
 Enjoy on us on the next episode.
 [Music]