 How the current influences in your life are at work shaping your character.
 That is up next.
 Welcome to the Christmas Card of Show, where we discuss leadership and life,
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 Hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 We are having a great day here.
 Nice beautiful sunshine outside that is influencing our moods.
 Yes, that might have something to do with the day show.
 Because today we are talking about influence.
 I know that was lame.
 Anyways, you've heard me say a ton of times,
 if you are going to be a leader, you have to be an influencer.
 Right?
 To lead somebody you must influence somebody.
 Leadership is not about telling people what to do.
 It is not about dictating to them.
 It's helping them to get somewhere that they would not normally get to.
 So, influence is the capacity to have an effect on someone's character.
 Their development or their behavior.
 So let's put this into practical terms.
 You probably desire to positively influence those you lead in trying.
 If you don't, you really should come see us.
 We should talk about this.
 Why?
 You likely want to make a lasting impact.
 You probably want to help them to actually change.
 Right?
 Not just talk about change.
 You probably want to grow them, develop them, improve them.
 You know, all the things that makes the team member a better team member.
 Obviously, because that's going to benefit the company.
 It's going to benefit the teams.
 It's going to benefit the bottom line.
 It will benefit you.
 But leadership isn't the only kind of influence that shapes behavior or character.
 I know you know that.
 But on today's episode, we're going to take a look at the other influences that are working
 in your life that are affecting your thoughts, your behavior and your character.
 Now, I want to focus on character for a minute because it's so fundamental to who you are
 as an individual.
 Character is the mental and moral qualities distinctive to you as an individual.
 Let me say that again.
 Character is the mental and moral qualities distinctive to you as an individual.
 So your character gives you distinction and definition.
 It's what makes you you.
 So if you want you to be better, that's the whole lot of use in here.
 If you want you to be stronger, if you want you to be different, if you want you to be
 a wiser or whatever, then you need to make sure that you've got the right influences in your life.
 Now, I know that sounds pretty basic, but we're going to hit some things that might help
 you to see that you may not have the best influences in your life.
 And we come back how the information you consume today shapes who you are tomorrow.
 So if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue when
 it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships is having a lack
 of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life, it all starts with
 having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand
 the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with, whether it be at work,
 whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to Chrissacrita.com/store and get your personality profile and
 personality profiles for your team today.
 Get it for your family members.
 Today, as you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to Chrissacrita.com/store2day.
 You've heard the old adage that knowledge is power, right?
 Well, power to do what?
 Knowledge or let's call it information that we absorb is power to make better decisions.
 It's power to solve problems.
 If you have not listened to episode 429 in the art of solving problems, go listen to that.
 It's powerful, right?
 It helps you to improve your life and the lives of others.
 So here's what I want you to consider.
 I want you to consider negative influences.
 If you go all the way back to the garden of Eden, believers think of the serpent in the garden.
 If you go all the way back to the garden of Eden, there's a pretty darn decent negative influence
 that's moving around in that garden, influencing Adam and Eve, right?
 The information that was given to them influenced them to make a really stupid decision.
 Now, it's easy for us to hindsight to look back on that and say, wow, that was a really bad decision.
 However, here's what we have to understand.
 The influence that was twisting words and giving Adam and Eve false information is the thing
 that they received that allowed them to make bad decisions.
 Now here's one of the things we talk about all the time in the next level of life, so this is
 a little bit of a right turn, but when we do not trust that God has our best interest in
 art, we take control of things.
 The negative influence in the garden convinced Adam and Eve that God did not have their best interest
 at heart that he was holding out on them and because they believed they were being held out on,
 they made a bad decision to go and eat the fruit that they were not supposed to eat.
 So we could talk about that for 17 years.
 The point that I want you to see is they had the greatest influencer of all times, right?
 It's God.
 They had the best influence.
 However, it didn't take a lot now.
 We don't know the time for him to talk with it.
 I don't assume as it happened as fast as it reads.
 I actually think that Satan dripped on them day after day after day convincing them that God
 was holding out.
 Either way, that negative influence changing words is it impacted, influenced bad decision making.
 So information is informative, right?
 It helps form new thoughts, new ideas, new desires, new goals, Satan's influence indicated
 a path which allowed them to choose disobedience.
 So important as we go forward, our focus here is not to be victims.
 We're not talking about that you're a victim to the negative influences in your life.
 You still have the opportunity to choose whatever decision you make.
 You are a grown adult.
 And those of you that are not grown adults yet that are listening, be prepared, know this
 stuff now.
 You can make great decisions, right?
 If you are having negative influences and is pointing you in a bad direction, even something
 against something that is a good influence, then make a decision not to follow it.
 Or make a decision to ask for help.
 Anything, right?
 The key is, his influence was pointing to something that they chose to go after.
 So that was their choice.
 Along that negative influence into their lives and not telling it to stop, to go somewhere
 out, stop talking to me, get away from me, is what allowed them, what we wouldn't say,
 it caused them, it was a choice, their own choice, and allowed them to choose disobedience.
 So think about the destructive effects that come from things like gossip that comes from
 lies, right?
 When you look at gossip and I will tell you we are all guilty of this.
 When you look at gossip, you really realize how destructive it is, the very first time you see
 the pain that somebody experiences because you shared something that you shouldn't have,
 or you said something that you shouldn't have, or you made something up that you shouldn't
 have, or you lied about something that you shouldn't have, right?
 The terrible thing is, as I've literally in my life watched people recognize their destructive
 effects through gossip and lies and not change a single thing.
 Why?
 Because their worth will so tie up in it, right?
 They were trying not to lose worth during that situation.
 Gossip is so destructive.
 There is a great old story and I'm probably going to screw it up, but I use it from time
 to time.
 Where a guy comes to a rabbi, and he says, "No, this is not in a bar.
 There's not multiple people coming into the bar.
 This guy goes to this rabbi, and he says to, "Hey, I did something bad.
 I just gossiped about so and so."
 I don't know what to do about it.
 And the rabbi says, "No problem.
 Go home and grab a pill.
 Do you have one of those feather pillows?"
 Oh yeah, totally.
 Okay, just go grab that.
 Is that good?
 Yep.
 Go bring it back to him.
 He's like, "Uh, okay.
 Easy."
 So he gets his pill and he brings it back in the rabbi.
 He says, "Okay, now rip it open.
 It was a really windy day and so he rips the pillow open feathers go everywhere."
 And the guy's like, "Wow, okay.
 So it cost me a pillow."
 He's like, "No, no.
 Now go put all of those feathers back in the pillow."
 I mean, he says, "Well, there's no possible way I could do that because that's right.
 It's the same thing with gossip.
 There's no possible way you could ever pull the things that you've said back.
 They've already had their effect.
 They've already taken off into the wind.
 Other people are going to hear it.
 Other people are going to make decisions based on it, right?
 So think of the destructive effects when you gossip about somebody.
 For us believers, God says, "We are not supposed to speak negatively about people
 in the world."
 Well, I'll screw that one up, right?
 We should be holding our tongues.
 We should be creating peace.
 And to lie about somebody, come on.
 You know that's creating destructive effects.
 How about the destructive effects of mainstream media?
 The ridiculousness of what's going on in our country right now with this fact-check concept.
 You just scream at you how destructive mainstream media is.
 That people could bring out actual facts and somebody can stamp it false just by stampic
 false, right?
 Or people can create facts that are not true and nobody cares about it.
 It's just ridiculous what's happening.
 The slant that happened, the the the subversion that happens by spreading ideology to try and
 get people to move in a specific direction.
 The destructive effects are terrible.
 I recognized years ago that I couldn't watch the news.
 It was and you probably heard me say this.
 I think I've mentioned this in this year about how I stopped watching the news during the
 Bush Gore election.
 I would turn it on in the morning and on my drive to work, you know, by the time I was done
 I get in my car and drive to work and I would find myself upset every single day.
 I would find myself upset.
 And I finally just said that's enough.
 No more news.
 And I literally did not watch news until COVID hit.
 And I think that's the first time I turn it back on and went, okay, I think I've got to
 find some information out.
 Because it's destructive.
 It's not truth being reported.
 It's information being slanted the way the people, the channel, the news show, whatever it
 is wants you to hear the information.
 That's not actually a positive thing.
 Think about the destructive effects of doubt.
 Think about the incredibly destructive effects of fear.
 Fear, you hear me say this.
 Geez, I'm saying a lot of things that I say all the time.
 But you hear me say, there are two types of fear.
 If a lion is chasing you, that's a legit fear.
 Make a decision.
 Right?
 It's okay to be fearful about that.
 You're about to get eaten.
 All the other stuff that's not based in something like that, where there is an eminent danger
 that you can see is going to happen.
 All the other fear doesn't exist yet.
 It's all something that you're creating on the possibility, whatever that percentage is and
 however small that percentage is, on something actually happening.
 So people will hold up their lives.
 People will expect communicates, believe that other people become fearful.
 I just left a doctor not too long ago that continued to push fear and to mainly saw that
 doctor once you're twice a year just for blood work anyways.
 And just the ridiculous fear that this supposed Christian doctor was trying to pound into me.
 I'm like, I just don't need you.
 I'm out.
 This is ridiculous, right?
 Fear is in correct faith in God.
 Fear will keep you from making smart decisions.
 Fear will keep you from moving.
 Right?
 It's destructive.
 And also the destructive effects of unbelief.
 If you don't believe that God has your best interest in heart that he is a good God, that
 he is a loving God, that he is a God who will punish his kids for doing wrong.
 He's very clear if you're obedient, I will give you blessings if you're disobedient
 on giving curses.
 Same as any good parent on the planet would do, right?
 If you don't believe that as your best interest at heart, then think of how destructive the effects
 are.
 Think of the bad choices that you make.
 So we talk a lot about stopping those negative influences.
 If you've not listened to episode 404 replacing the negative influences in your life, go back
 for that, go listen to that.
 We talk a lot about it in root system.
 That's something that we share a lot in next level life of taking a look at what's been negative
 in what do you do about it?
 Our goal isn't to say, "I'm a victim to somebody there for there, they're my villain."
 No, that's not what we're looking for.
 What we're talking about is how do we recognize how do we have great perspectives so that
 we can make different choices?
 So here's the key.
 If we don't replace what we remove from our minds, we're still vulnerable to negativity, right?
 So even if we look at negative influences and we can point them out.
 But we don't put something positive in its place.
 Then what will happen is, is we will allow another potentially negative thing to fill that
 void.
 We have got to battle the negativity or the lies with truth.
 We're a place that negative influences with positive influences.
 Now I will tell you that I believe the number one influence you need in your life is the
 King of the universe.
 The one who created you.
 The one who owns you.
 You may not understand that yet.
 Keep digging.
 He owns you.
 He owns your destiny.
 He owns everything that's going to happen, right?
 Because he created you.
 You belong to him.
 You are not a create tour only he is.
 So I believe the best, most positive influence has got.
 I believe studying his word is incredibly powerful for you and incredibly positive.
 And by that what I mean is, remove a lot of the doctrine you've probably been taught through
 the years, get doctrine away from God's word and start reading through God's word in what
 he's saying.
 This is about God.
 It's not about us.
 It's about him, right?
 It's history that is his story.
 It's about him teaching us how to make right decisions, how to make good decisions.
 So as you go through his word, seek what he's trying to communicate to us.
 But on top of that, here's one of the most important things you can ever do.
 Seeing what your worth is to him.
 See what he thinks your worth is.
 Not what man does.
 Man's version of your worth is a lot of times worth less.
 So it's pointless.
 Don't do it.
 Spend time seeing what he says your worth is.
 And I will tell you, you will probably be shocked.
 Start at the beginning.
 Go through it.
 I would also say if you've never read through a chronological Bible which puts the Bible in
 chronological order, do it.
 I'm a very visual person.
 And that is something that has helped me immensely is to see the order.
 I love it because I get to watch it like a movie.
 Right now, I've been through the Bible many of the time.
 But in chronological order, it's actually like watching a movie.
 I'm walking with them in my mind.
 I'm there with them.
 I'm experiencing it in order which is super powerful.
 So number two is, talk to him in prayer.
 Now, we do a lot of teaching on hey, prayer is not about the people around you.
 It is not about what people hear.
 It is not about the judgment of others.
 You are speaking to your true father.
 You are speaking to your true creator.
 You are speaking to the one who owns you and loves you well more than anybody else.
 How do you do that?
 It is not about nine dollar words and fluffy stuff.
 Right?
 Talk to him as you would want to be talked to by your child.
 Spend time understanding that he wants you to talk with him.
 That he wants you to reach out to him.
 You will probably start off with a whole lot of selfish stuff.
 That's all right.
 I always tell people, try the 5-5 and 5.
 If you're just starting out, spend five minutes praising him for everything.
 You can think of everything.
 I don't care how small it is.
 People go, "Well, God doesn't care about yes he does."
 He cares about everything in your life.
 He created you for a purpose.
 He created you for his will.
 He loves you.
 He knows you.
 He wants you to talk to him.
 Praise him for everything you can think of.
 Then spend five minutes, praying about other people.
 Yep, we don't put you in there yet.
 Pray for other people.
 And then spend five minutes praying for you.
 You're asking God for things for you in your life.
 What you will find is, over the years, all that stuff will shift more and more and more to
 God's will.
 The things that I pray about for me overwhelmingly are more about, "I want your will and
 your purposes in my life than pay.
 Can you help me out with, I sure could use a great waiver."
 I don't know.
 I don't know.
 That's lame.
 I just made that up on the fly.
 So spend time in prayer number three, listening to others and here's the important piece.
 Listening to others who obey God.
 Now listen to me.
 A lot of us come from horrible teaching.
 A lot of us come from bad teaching that says, "God, wipe away everything."
 He gave everybody great instructions on how to live their life.
 And then for some strange reasons that it was really bad and so he took it all away.
 That is not God who did that.
 That is a pagan emperor from 380.
 So listen, constantly.
 If you don't know that.
 Listen.
 God wants you to obey Him in the things that he's telling you to do because they're good for you.
 He wants you to not do the things he's telling you not to do because it's good.
 For you.
 And the more you will obey Him, the more he will reveal Himself to you.
 If you've not had a lot of revelation from God, check your obedience meter.
 I don't know where you get one of those.
 Maybe at home, deeper.
 Check and see how much you're being obedient to God.
 I can tell you when I became more obedient to God.
 And by this what I'm saying is, and by the way, following His law does not get you
 salvation, salvation is through faith.
 So don't tie that in there.
 When you are saved, when you recognize what He's done for you, you should desire to do the
 things that he asks you to do.
 You should desire to not do the things he tells you not to do.
 It's plain and simple.
 Let's go back to the parenting room.
 If you are a good parent, do you not want your kids to do the things you tell them to do?
 If you tell them to brush their teeth, they should brush their teeth.
 Now some of you are thinking, yes, they're teeth rotting out of the head.
 No, that's going to cost you a lot more money.
 So put a consequence in there.
 Do say if you choose this, then you're choosing this consequence.
 Guess what it's the same thing that God does with us.
 If you choose to be obedient, I will bless you.
 Keep brushing your teeth.
 You will get a blessing.
 Stop brushing your teeth.
 You will get a curse.
 You'll get a punishment.
 There's going to be something that you're going to receive that's going to try and convince
 you that my way is better than your way.
 So follow people who obey God.
 The person who says that they are a Christ follower, but does not follow the things the Christ
 tells them to do.
 That means they are not truly a Christ follower.
 Think about that because it may be you.
 If you are convincing yourself that you are a follower of Jesus, but you aren't actually doing
 the things he tells you to do and not doing the things he does not do, that makes you
 not a follower who's the most positive influence you can have.
 God.
 So follow people, listen to people who are following God.
 The more that you find them, don't go find the person who tells you the thing that you
 want to hear.
 Don't go find the person who is bending things out of the Bible.
 Don't go find the person who is absolutely going against what God's word says.
 Find the person who is actually obeying.
 Put that person in your life.
 So as we go through these positive influences, don't you think about that old saying?
 Garbage in.
 Garbage out.
 It is true in our inner lives, our hearts and our minds.
 If you're putting garbage in, if you're putting negative influences in, if you are
 spending time on social media like crazy, if you're constantly flipping your screen on a social
 media app, if you're constantly listening to people complaining, if you're constantly listening
 to negative stuff, if you're constantly looking at people who are twisting information,
 fill in the blank.
 If it's garbage, get rid of it.
 If you're constantly listening to music, that's garbage, get rid of it.
 That is, at the end of the day, garbage in.
 Garbage out.
 So our society is a consumption society.
 We are consumers.
 That's what we do.
 We consume resources.
 We consume time and energy.
 We consume information.
 So if you think about it, when you think of the word consumer, what do you think about somebody
 who's purchasing things?
 Somebody who's going to stores, somebody who's consuming a product, right?
 How long?
 Think about information.
 How much do you consume information?
 Well, you do it all day long.
 What's the percentage of it that's positive versus the percentage that's negative, right?
 So consider this.
 What you feed on, you become, you are what you eat, right?
 Whatever you're putting in, whatever you're feeding on, that becomes you.
 So think about the information you're consuming because this is what's influencing your character.
 If you're spending time with podcasts and TV, are they positive?
 What shows are you listening to?
 Obviously you're listening to this show right now.
 You're making such a phenomenal decision.
 I'm just telling you right now.
 What books are you reading?
 What blogs are you reading?
 What ideas of people are you reading?
 What thought leaders are you following?
 If you're following thought leaders, listen, ladies, let me speak to you for a moment.
 There are some crappy thought leaders out there in the women's world right now that are telling
 women go to the top of the mountain and scream who you are, that you carry the weight of
 the world and you need to take care of you and it's all about you, you, you, you, you, and
 it is this insanely self-promoting selfish message and they're doing really well because they're
 relating to people.
 When you break the message apart, the meat of the message is selfishness.
 That is not God's message.
 Right?
 And so it's not just women, but it's mainly there's a whole lot of thought leaders that have
 hit the scene that have been blown up like crazy because they're preaching selfishness and
 a lot of people are just eating it up, right?
 Pay attention to that.
 If they're telling you that it's all about you, it's you, you, you, you, you get away from
 that as fast as you possibly can because guess which character is going to be selfishness.
 So your character is being formed out of all of these pieces that you're putting into.
 Now when we come back, a personal assessment of the influences you're allowing to shape
 you.
 Freedom, it's so powerful.
 I felt rejuvenated, almost renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So I was very comfortable there.
 That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it.
 It's going to be hard.
 It's going to be even better on the other side.
 For me, it was just a very refreshing.
 I want to say life to you for me, for me, really was.
 You know, I would go to the next level of life again and probably again and probably again because
 it's so powerful.
 I want you to ask yourself a question, could you hear the sense of hope and freedom and their
 voices just then?
 I want you to know that could be you.
 Look, it's easy to get trapped and old habits, negative thought patterns and unhealthy
 relationships.
 It's going to take some work, but yes, there is hope for you.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of self-warness
 and freedom that they have or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like
 for you, then head on over to crissacardo.com/nexlevellife.
 So who's speaking into your life right now?
 Who is feeding you information or innocence influence?
 The people we allow to influence us will absolutely change our character.
 Now they won't change it, but by the fact that we are allowing them to influence us will
 affect our character.
 So let me ask you this, who have you empowered to influence your life.
 When you turn on the radio, who are you listening to?
 What are you listening to?
 When you pick up your phone, goodness gracious, for those people that are addicted to their
 phones, boy, it is incredible how much people cannot stop grabbing their phone and looking
 at something, right?
 When you do, what's on it?
 When you read, what are you reading?
 When you're thinking, what are you thinking?
 So I am a big proponent of Zig Ziglar's Will of Life model.
 We use it eight hundred here.
 We make a slight adjustment just barely, but we've used it for many, many, many years.
 And the reason why is because it does a great job of pointing out seven major areas in
 your life that you should be focusing on, that you should be setting goals to, that you should
 be seeing what's positive, what's negative, that you should have mission statements on,
 right, purposes for, right?
 So that's a big thing that we use around here a lot.
 As I read through these areas of life, consider what's influencing you right now in
 them, who or what is in forming you, information in forming, influencing you on your decisions,
 your problem solving, your improvements.
 So the first one is spiritual.
 Now we would switch that to God and say, "God, relationship, how, who is influencing you on
 that?"
 Who's speaking into your life, their family, who is speaking into your life, influencing you
 in a positive way on what your family should look like.
 There is a ton of negative, gilting, controlling, manipulative crap out there on what you should
 be doing about your family.
 Are you avoiding it?
 Or are you allowing it to be something that affects your worth when it comes to your family?
 Do you have a mission statement of what you want your family to be?
 You know what you want it to look like, right?
 How about your career?
 Who's speaking to you into your life or influencing you about your career?
 Your finances, your physical being, you intellectually, your feelings, thoughts, intellect, emotions,
 and what about your social life?
 Who's speaking into those areas?
 So I want to wrap up with this quote by Epictetus who was a slave-turned philosopher in ancient
 Greece, you become what you give your attention to.
 If you yourself don't choose what thoughts and images you expose yourself to, someone else
 will, and their motives may not be the highest.
 But that's sink in because that really sums up the show.
 That sums up what we're talking about here.
 In other words, the information, the information, the information you consume is part of your
 character formation process.
 So you can download the will of life.
 The infographic is a tool for your personal assessment process.
 And I hope that you'll use it to discover what changes you want to make.
 Now the link is in our show notes.
 But you can also go to Chrissacurdo.com/ZIGZIGLARWILLAVLIVE.
 And you can get that there.
 But as always, we're hoping that you take this information and you do something with it
 right now.
 Choose what influences you.
 Change the negative influences in your life.
 If you're going from this show to something negative, stop.
 If you're going from this show on to something that's not positive for you, not good for
 you, stop.
 Get rid of it, right?
 Come and listen to another episode of our show.
 I put something in place that is positive for you.
 Change the information, change how you form your character by allowing in positive influences.
 We'll folks, hopefully this has helped you today.
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your
 life, and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]