 How cultivating clarity and relationships is a lot like waiting your garden.
 That's coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks. Listen, over the years you've heard me talk about
 gaining perspective a lot.
 And you've heard me talk about it, especially in relationships.
 Recently, on the episode 399, we discussed going after clarity with curiosity
 and sincerity, right? So it comes up all the time.
 So why do we have to keep revisiting it?
 Well, because most people think their communication is already good enough.
 But it's not. Sorry. It's just not.
 Right? We have to keep working on it.
 We have to keep doing something about it.
 You probably heard that communication is the lifeblood of any organization.
 That is a fact.
 It is the number one issue that we see with every business coming in for strat plan.
 Is that there is a lack of high levels of quality communication.
 But just good communication really isn't good enough.
 It's not good enough to grow. It's not good enough to make healthy relationships.
 And order for something to be healthy in order for something to grow in order for something to thrive.
 You've got to intentionally cultivate its soil.
 Communication must be cultivated.
 Organizations thrive or die on the quality of communication.
 Just think about it.
 How many times have you seen amazing things happen when your communication is just solid?
 And how many more times, which you could probably count a heck of a lot more,
 how many more times have you seen problems coming from a lack of communication?
 Have you seen people at each other's throat?
 Have you seen balls being dropped because people aren't communicating well?
 It's a lot.
 We've got to actually cultivate this.
 We strive for high levels of quality communication.
 That's what we're looking for, not just good.
 Most people think they have good.
 What they discover is when we get in and pull things apart is that they discover that it's not even good enough.
 That it's usually struggling.
 And so when we pull things apart and strap in what we discover is that every business,
 their communication is considerably less than they think it is when it comes to quality.
 And it tends to be not tends to.
 It is the number one reason why things are holding them back.
 The number one issues.
 We always find communication is number one lack of accountability is number two.
 So consider this carefully. Low qualities of clarity equal low qualities of communication.
 The truth is there are all sorts of things that get in the way of clear communication.
 Now we have to constantly be telling the soil.
 We have to constantly be removing the rocks, the weeds, and striving for clarity.
 But how do we do that?
 So when we come back, I want to unpack the process for discovering and removing what's blocking clarity in your communication.
 And we'll get into that right after this.
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue.
 When it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having a lack of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life, it all starts with having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with.
 Whether it be at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to Chrissacroteau.com/store and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your team to date.
 To date, get it for your family members.
 Today, as you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to Chrissacroteau.com/store2day.
 So when it comes to cultivating communication in our relationships, here's a key statement that I want you to think about the process on.
 Most relationships problems stem from poor communication.
 Most relationship problems.
 Think of every relationship problem you've ever had.
 How many of those are stemming from bad communication, right?
 If there's room for ambiguity, then there's room for confusion.
 Which equates to increased failure, right?
 However, where there's no ambiguity, there can be very few misunderstandings.
 Each person should understand the other.
 If we've removed the ambiguity, if we've done a great job at clarifying exactly what it is we're trying to communicate,
 it should be easy at that point to understand each other, right?
 Each person should be able to take personal responsibility.
 If I clearly understand what's expected of me, if it's been clearly communicated to me, there's no ambiguity in the process.
 I should be able to take personal responsibility, which is so important when we're trying to lead people, right?
 We want people to take personal responsibility.
 If there's no ambiguity, then tasks should be easier, right?
 We should all be able to cooperate in the process.
 You're doing what you're doing, I'm doing what I'm doing.
 It's clear, again, no ambiguity, we know what to do.
 Things should get done.
 That's how it should be with high clarity.
 Communication is more pure, it's a higher quality.
 And hey, while we're talking about communicating the clarity, here's something I want you to know.
 For my team, I expect, I teach my team not to wait for clarity.
 If you don't have clarity, I'm something, go get it.
 If somebody has led you, directed you, given you information on something, and you're still not clear on what that looks like.
 Go get it.
 Do not wait.
 Do not put it on the back burner.
 Do not expect somebody's going to come by and clarify it for you.
 Instead, go get the answer right now.
 So speaking to clarity, you're probably already very familiar.
 I'm sure you are following this show of these basic communication techniques.
 Number one, listening intentionally.
 What does that mean?
 Folks, so many people listen to respond.
 So many people listen to be able to insert their opinion, to be able to insert their expertise, their knowledge, their whatever, their criticism, whatever.
 Listening intentionally is not listening to respond.
 It's listening to understand.
 It's listening for clarity purposes.
 One of the things you have to do is make sure that when you're listening in your relationships to the communication that is coming your direction, if your focus is on responding, you're going to end up in the weeds.
 If your focus is on understanding, you're going to have a heck of a lot better communication.
 Number two, providing feedback again, just like listening intentionally.
 Many people provide feedback to give criticism, to give their input, to give their ideas, their thoughts instead of providing feedback that is beneficial solely for the person who's communicating.
 Right?
 So if somebody's trying to communicate something to me and bring clarity to me, if I provide feedback, the goal isn't to say, here's what I know and I understand.
 And here's how smart I am and how amazing I am.
 Instead, it's to provide feedback on getting to clarity of the communication.
 Number three, paying attention.
 Super easy. It's actually not that difficult.
 If you're distracted on your phone, you're not paying attention.
 If you're waiting for your opportunity to jump in, you're not paying attention.
 If you're looking around the room and thinking about what you're going to eat for lunch today, you're not paying attention.
 If you'll stay focused and you will pay attention to what the person is communicating, it gives you the ability to ask questions, gain perspective, you know, push back on what you're being told any of those things.
 So you have to make sure that you're focusing and paying attention on what's being communicated to you.
 Number four, keeping an open mind. This is super, super important.
 If you have a closed mind to the information that's coming to you, then you will have already set up your decisions, your ideas, your, you know, responses, all those things are going to be already in place because you already know.
 You already think you know what you know, you already have the answers.
 One of the things I love leading leaders on is being curious and in the perspective gathering process,
 ask even though they already know the answer. Because here's a great thing.
 If I believe I've already got the answer, then what do I need your opinion for? What do I need your input for?
 However, as a leader, what I like to do is, well, this is the direction I'm going, this is the answer I have, let me tax the collective intelligence and find out if somebody's got a better answer.
 So when I tax the collective intelligence, it does multiple things. It allows my team to speak into the process.
 It causes them to think in process the best answers that they can and by gosh.
 A great thing is it also helps them to take ownership because they now have buy into the process.
 But one of the best things is, what if they have a better answer than what I've got?
 Many times what happens. I might have the answer. I know this is the answer. This is the thing I want to do and then somebody throws a curveball and I'm like, oh,
 yeah, that's actually a much better response. So keep an open mind in the process of communication.
 And number five, responding appropriately. Now once again, if we are focusing on this, for being selfish, if we're focusing on wanting to give our opinion, our direction,
 if we want us to sound good, if we want to gain worth from it, then our response probably isn't going to be the best response.
 It's probably not going to be incredibly helpful in the clarification process.
 But if I'm really focused on making sure that I get clarity from the person who's communicating to me,
 then my response should be in alignment with that. If I'm not getting clarity, I should ask questions.
 If I disagree with something, I should push back and ask questions, right?
 Responding appropriately is incredibly important if you're going to have clarity in your communication.
 Now, maybe try to do these things, but problems persist. So what are the weeds in our communication garden?
 We're going to get to that when we come back right after this.
 Freedom, it's so powerful. I felt rejuvenated, almost renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So I was very comfortable there. That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it. It's going to be hard. But it's going to be even better on the other side.
 For me, it was just a very refreshing and I want to say life giving for me. It really was.
 You know, I would go through next level of life again and probably again and probably again because it's so powerful.
 I want you to ask yourself a question, could you hear the sense of hope and freedom and their voices just then?
 I want you to know that could be you. Look, it's easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns and unhealthy relationships.
 It's going to take some work, but yes, there is hope for you. If you want to experience this same kind of life transformation,
 this same kind of self-warness and freedom that they have, or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like for you,
 then head on over to Chrissacordo.com/nextlevellife.
 Okay, we'd number one, our position. One of the first weaves that we have got to get out of our garden in this analogy here is our position.
 Our position in the relationship often informs our posture towards the other person. Think about it. Have you ever been in the grocery store?
 And you have a cashier who maybe isn't very talkative or seems to have a bad attitude or, I don't know, is just treating you in a way that's not appropriate.
 Right? What do we normally think?
 But I'm the customer. I'm the one paying you, which is an accurate thought process, right?
 If I'm buying these groceries here at your store, you're making your paycheck because I'm one of the many people who's putting money in this store's bank account, and they're paying you from it.
 So guess what? I'm the customer. However, when our position is solid like that, that I'm just right because this is my position. What we tend to not do is think about the other person.
 Not experience what they're experiencing. One of the things I say a lot is, you know, put yourself in their shoes. You've heard that your whole life.
 But sometimes we just don't even think to do it, right? So there was a time back in the early late 90s when I was moving into a house on Thanksgiving day of all days on moving into this house.
 And didn't have any food, didn't have anything unpacked to cook with any of that stuff. So we went to one of the only restaurants.
 Literally the only restaurant we could find open on Thanksgiving morning. And if you can put a little imagination into it, you can probably figure out which types of restaurants are open.
 Thanksgiving morning. This is not high quality food. This is tons of sugar and tons of crap, right? But it was food done the less and we were thankful.
 So we went in and it was just dead quiet. There were probably a half a dozen tables with people sitting at them and the waitress was walking around with her head down. She didn't make any contact or anything, right?
 It was just dead in there. And I'm sitting there not wanting to be moving into my house on Thanksgiving day, but this is the situation I'm in.
 And I look around and I think to myself, well, praise God, this place is open. Otherwise, where would we eat?
 And praise God, this gal is giving up of her holiday to make sure that we have food. And so as I'm sitting there, I put myself in her shoes and think to myself, this probably sucks way more for her than it does for me.
 And so as she came by the table, and again, not making eye contact. I just looked at her and she was not making eye contact. I just looked at her and I said, "Hey, thank you for working your Thanksgiving for us."
 And she lifted her head and she beamed. She said, "Oh my gosh, thank you. Nobody said anything like that. Thank you so much. I'm going to thank you. We really appreciate that you're giving up of your time."
 And she went bouncing from table to table to table to table. You guys do no care over here. You need more coffee or anything else I can get you. Her whole attitude changed. Why?
 Because one person put themselves in her shoes and understood that she didn't want to be there.
 That the sucked for her. That it's something she'd much rather be at home with family doing whatever she did on Thanksgiving, right? And just by changing my position and thinking about what she's experiencing and what she's coming from.
 I was able to think of her instead of me. I was able to think of what she's experiencing and feeling instead of thinking about myself. And by doing so, it was a great response.
 So our position has to change sometimes if we're going to get clarity. So think about it. If you're married, and if you have a spouse or if you're in a relationship, right, you have a significant other.
 Here's what we tend to believe when it comes to our position. But I'm right. I'm always right. This one's always wrong. I'm always right.
 Although you've never thought that way ever. When you think that you're right and you believe that you're right, you may be right.
 But what you may not understand is the other person may just not be seeing it correctly. You may not understand the other person has something else going on.
 They're experiencing something else in the moment. You may not understand that the person's root system might be screaming at them on how to respond.
 So by taking the position I'm always right, it keeps us from understanding our spouses position. It keeps us from understanding their perspective.
 So one of the things I do in Stratplan all the time is I do it next level of two sometimes is I've got a coffee canister in front of me usually.
 And I will ask them, it's one of the crystal curto ones. So it's black and I'll cover color writing on it.
 I'll ask the people around the table, hey, what color is this canister? Every time they'll go, well, let's black.
 And I say, well, what if I said it was blue? And once in a great while, somebody will say, I'd say you were stupid. Okay.
 A little interesting in their response. But then I take the canister and I turn it halfway around.
 And I go, what if my side was blue? No, obviously it's not. It's an all black canister.
 But what if my side was blue? And that's when people go, oh, well, then I guess I wasn't seeing what you were seeing.
 That's correct. That's an important thing to understand. If our position is that we're always right. Guess what? We're always right. Even when we're wrong.
 If we don't stop to focus on what the other person's perspective is, then we're always going to not have clarity in communication.
 Think about it when it comes to your team members or your children.
 If your focus is, your position is that you're the one who is in charge, then how are you going to always respond?
 Now I'm not saying that there aren't times that you need to take that leadership role in a respond as somebody who is in authority.
 That's not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is, when your position is, you're always the person in authority, then how do we tend to respond to our team members?
 Sadly, when that is our position, how do we tend to respond to our children?
 I'm the one who's in charge, you do what I say. There's only one reason to be that way.
 And that's because we feel a lot of control.
 If I need to be in control, then I must always portray that I am in control. I'm the one who's in charge. I'm the one who's older.
 I obviously know more than you do. Well, if that's my position, then I'm never going to care about what the other person is experiencing.
 I'm never going to care their perspective. I'm never going to think about what their perspective is, which means there's not going to be a whole lot of clarity.
 So in each case, we're prone to communicate based on our position or relation to the person.
 Now we can easily get impatient with others with things like just listen to me and do what I say.
 All right, we can be impatient with our position. This can be a huge obstacle in our communication.
 This can be huge and making sure we don't get clarity.
 So we've only made it through our first week, but we're out of time for today, so we're going to pick up next week in the meantime.
 Consider how your position and any given relationship is feeding your posture towards that person.
 Maybe take us that back, reassess and re-engage with a clearer perspective.
 If you do that, what you may discover is clarity is much easier to obtain in communication.
 And when you do that, what you may discover is relationships are much better when you have clarity.
 Well, folks, we're going to pick up part two next week. I hope this has helped you today.
 Take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]