 The impact of the influences we choose, the good, the bad, and the ugly that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life, and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks. Hope you guys are having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 We are having a fabulous day in studio because we got, and I say we because we have some great folks in studio.
 Welcome guys.
 Hey, glad to be back.
 Hey, glad to be here.
 Our coaches are on today.
 Well, we're in studio, Joel and I, and Aaron is in his studio in Crossville, Tennessee.
 Amazing technology.
 Shout out to Crossville, Tennessee, and we're three listeners there.
 Aaron, why is he not in his daughter's?
 I don't know which daughter is listening.
 That's right. Why don't we have four air and come on.
 So today, we're talking about influence, influence in general, and if you listen, if you have not listened to 435,
 how influential and shape your character, you want to make sure you go back to that.
 The theme for this month has been influence, and we've talked about that for a few weeks.
 And now as the coaches, we get to come together and dive deep into both the positive effects and also the negative effects of the choices that we have made when it comes to influences.
 So, by definition, influence is the capacity to have an effect on the character development or behavior of someone else.
 So, when we come back, we're going to open up a bit and get really vulnerable talking about where we've gotten wrong,
 with the influences that we've allowed into our lives, and where we think that we may actually be getting it right.
 So, we're going to talk about that when we come back right out to this.
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here.
 I'm the Vice President of Leadership Development on Chris's team, and I oversee our next level mastermind business coaching program.
 Most business owners and leaders lack a clear path to succeed in business.
 They question whether they're making the right decisions, if they're focusing on the right things to really grow their business.
 If this is you, you need to coach in your life.
 Coach is helping make better decisions, navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively, and grow your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue and an average of 138% increase in net profit and regain hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3 1/2 years simply because of the results they get.
 So, if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting, then visit ChrisCarto.com/mastermind.
 Alright, so we are talking influence. Let's dive into a few questions for the coaches who want to roll first.
 Yeah, I'll go.
 You're going to go first?
 Okay.
 Joel, so short-strow.
 Don't pull this short-strow.
 You paused for a brief second and I was like, "I'll do it."
 Yeah, I'm out of the way. I jump in. It's the high high. There you go.
 So we've got a few questions that we're going to go through.
 The first one is, "Where have you seen the effect of negative influences in your life ready to go?"
 All through my life.
 I was born.
 And then I was in kindergarten.
 When I really, when I reflect back on life, especially with what we teach here in terms of root system,
 of understanding your past, your influences that you allow in and experiences.
 And I especially think about from childhood that I remember.
 Not only do you have family influence, and that's the things your parents struggle with,
 your sibling struggle with, there's a lot of influence there.
 But a thing that comes to mind when I think about this is that even my neighbors, I grew up with,
 that I remember my parents cautioning me about, "Hey, this family is...
 I feel like I didn't listen as coming in here."
 Well, there is some of that. But it's like, "I think it's a parent."
 I think they really struggled with letting, "Okay, we're going to let them play with experience.
 It's a bad stuff."
 Or just not know exactly what to do.
 But I wonder, I should ask my parents about my father passed away in January for those who don't know.
 But to ask her, "What did you think about when the with who we grew up with?"
 I'm thinking about Dusty and Danny and then other neighbors around,
 "Looking back with why's her eyes today?"
 I can see the toxicity that was in the home of our,
 and I'm talking severe toxicity.
 And it did lead to some very bad things that happened in the past.
 I'm sorry.
 Do you think those guys are listening to them?
 Very possibly. I hope that they are.
 I hope they are. I hope that they're getting positive influence listening to the show.
 But man, I think about stuff like that all the way forward and who I went to school with
 all the way up through college into my 20s of looking at the amount of negative and toxic influence
 that I chose to surround myself with, especially in my teen and early adult years,
 of how many really poor decisions that it led to in my life.
 That, "Thank praise God I get to use as teachable moments for people that I coach and I train and people
 who come through next summer life today."
 But that's where it all started with me.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, it's so interesting. You talk about those things, Jill, because they echo a lot of my story as well.
 And even as a person growing up, my group in a small town, my dad was the head of HR
 at mainly the really the only factory in our town. My mom worked in the court system.
 So guess what questions I always got? Who were their parents?
 Because my parents probably knew them. They either worked for my dad or they'd been in court with my mom.
 So it's one of those where, for me, there's a lot of the questions of who are the negative influences in your life.
 Who are the negative influences that haven't effect on you?
 And so I was always very cautious about friends. But there were some friends that had a tendency to get me in trouble.
 And I went along with it a number of times. And even going through...
 I love the victim mentality right there from Aaron.
 They got me in trouble.
 They got me in trouble.
 And yeah, I'm not taking any personal responsibility for that at all.
 But what is really interesting for me is the impact that I've lost both of my parents.
 And so for me having three older brothers that had very positive influences on my life.
 But also I've had very negative influences on my life.
 And even sometimes not even realizing the negative influence of a close family member,
 even until just a few years ago and going through next-level life with Chris and talking through and realizing
 the negative influence that we all shared with each other as brothers together around some situations.
 And not even recognizing it as such.
 But now looking back and realizing gosh, this was something that was holding us back as individuals.
 Yeah, that's pretty powerful.
 That's such a powerful thing you bring up there.
 And as you think about the influence you have in your life and the things you go through is how does it kind of mess you up?
 How do you become toxic in the process and then how do you contribute negatively?
 How do you become the negative influence or to those around you?
 That's the thing today.
 That's the like the, oh my gosh, that's the part I probably hate the worst.
 It's so funny because when you started Joel, I realized we have three former people, please,
 we have three, what's the term we're covered in covering people?
 People, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people
 That negative influence to be something because I thought, oh, if I can make this person happy, then I'm worthy.
 It's a very stuff that we talk about and that's not that we teach.
 Is that I probably allowed so much negative influence.
 There's a combination.
 There's certain negative influence that was thrust upon me.
 Without going into deep information, there's certain things that it's just this is happening.
 There's nothing you're going to do about it.
 And then there's the people pleaser of man.
 If I can, even if I go do this thing with that person, then I'll really be liked.
 And then I will feel really good about myself and surely I'll be something.
 And I think everybody can probably relate to that.
 I believe everybody listening to the show can probably relate to that.
 Later on in life when God took a two by four upside my head and it's like knock it off.
 Do you see what you're doing?
 That was super impactful for me and things shifted where instead of me being someone who sought out.
 Gosh, I never really sought out negative influence.
 It was just if it was there and I can make somebody happy on the process, then there you go.
 But I was a pretty good kid.
 I didn't get in trouble, didn't do a lot of bad junk.
 But later on in life when I look at the negative influences, interestingly enough, it was in a reverse for a long time where it's now I'm trying to help people and still not recognizing the need for healthy boundaries.
 The need for understanding when somebody is trying to use the daylights out of you with their negativity.
 Sometimes you try to help help help help.
 The person just soaks it up and everything else becomes worse in their life and then that becomes more influence, more influence, more influence.
 So I think the next question I'm going to ask, I'll just roll into this and then y'all jump in.
 The second question is how did you finally realize they were negative, they were negative and put a stop to them.
 I think for me when I started recognizing how it was impacting my life in a negative way.
 So it could be times of having conversations with somebody and in the, all right, listen, I'm going to do everything I can to help you help you help you help you and then all of a sudden it's like, you know, it's not working out for them or whatever and it gets turned back the other direction.
 Oh, wait a second, I don't think I like this or another piece which is interesting has also been people that were friends that they, you know, when we were friends or close friends, life was great, they're doing things great.
 They make different decisions in life and then it's this attempt to draw me that direction.
 In a not so much in a, hey, I want you to come and make bad choices like I'm making, but affirm my choices, right, does that make sense?
 Like you can, you can see some of those people that were great, great, great and then all of a sudden they're making bad choices and then it's like, hey, once you come with me.
 That's like, well, no, I don't think so. I'll help you out of that. I will point out that it's a bad choice.
 But I think when I started seeing it wearing on me personally, that's when I started going, this is nowhere where I want to be.
 You know, anything that threatened my relationship with God, I think that's when it started to pop out is, you really need to rethink this process.
 Yeah, I think gosh, I'm sitting here reflecting as you share that Chris and I'm thinking about.
 For how, how many years did I live life that I could recognize, this is the thing about this question. It's like, I could recognize that not everything happening here was good and that there was negative influence, but I didn't care.
 Because the acceptance of the people was more important than the influence I was going with. If I was accepted by certain crowds of people, the people that were more popular on all the way up through high school, it wasn't until college that life really started to change in for me in that way.
 And God started putting other people in my life that a lot of even even what my life day today today directly links back to half my life ago with much positive influence I started coming into it in college.
 But up into that point, I remember and I could recognize this kind of decision making the partying it was, but I didn't care because it was the acceptance that outweigh the influence and that is a dangerous place to be.
 And I think we need to make a very clarifying statement here. We're not talking about our own bad choices. Listen, I have made stupid choices in life. I have made, you know, that's one of the things that I'll tell people through next level.
 I have come to a place to be very blunt and blatant about how I have screwed up in life. I've made bad choices. I've heard people have done stupid. We're not talking about just, we're not talking about have we made stupid choices. Oh my gosh.
 We're talking about the negative influences and how we've allowed that to be a part. So I definitely want to separate that out because otherwise we can sound like a little, you know, a few angels in here and that's not, you know, that's not true.
 We've done stupid. There's no ifs answer about it. If we hadn't done stupid, we couldn't do the things that we do now and teach people and guide them and direct them.
 So we're only focusing on the negative influence out of this conversation. So hopefully that's understandable.
 Yeah, and I'll jump over to the part I was sharing earlier about my brothers and just that piece, you know, for me, I didn't realize that it was a negative influence for the longest time.
 35 plus years of my life. I didn't know that it was a negative influence. And then, you know, going through and going through the process of, and again, I'm not trying to place an ad for next level life here or anything, but going through that process of next level life for me really opened my eyes to see the effect that it was having on me and on my family and on my kids and on my brothers.
 And so for me, the whole thing of how do you stop that is, is there was a hard conversation that happened.
 And what I might, my highest personality goes, oh, this is conflict, this is going to be bad, this is going to be rough.
 I don't know if I can handle this, all of that kind of stuff. And the reality of it was, it was a recognition by all of us to go, gosh, this is something that we've all been struggling with and never realized.
 And it was, it suddenly became an accountability thing around it. Hey, we're not going to talk about that. We're not going to bring that up. We're not going to have that discussion.
 And it's, it's really helped us to to chill out that negative influence we had on each other that we didn't realize we were doing.
 So power, so powerful.
 Yeah, I think just before we move on here to the next question, I think to, to even answer a little bit more, this, how did you put a stop to them that,
 Aaron, you reminded me of this when you said, when you recognized it was negative influence, there's so much power in recognizing, okay, here's the person, this is what they're doing, here's the negative influence, these are the surface sub-responses that I'm getting.
 And you realize even how do I tend to play into that, how do I make it worse, where do I not have healthy boundaries, where do I get caught up in it, and when you can have the perspective to see,
 no, this is just that person, this is what they struggle with that fast forward, do a lot of information that would come to the next of a life, is you learn not to take things personally and you watch and you observe, this is just that person being this way,
 where in the past, for instance, one example in my life, is that I would get drawn into it, like into a fight, or into a battle, and then now look who's being toxic, me.
 And so, when you could have that perspective of being able to realize, okay, what's going on here, that is one of many ways that you actually stop that influence from coming into your life.
 Yeah, I think, and I don't know how I don't take a God turn here, for me, I think my relationship with God, when I started realizing that I thought I had a relationship with God, and what I really had was a relationship with a belief system,
 when I started creating that relationship with God, that really God showed me, listen, you're only here for a short period of time, you're with me for eternity if you choose to be.
 So, think, choose wisely, right, what, how do you want the influences to be impacting your life? And I think that was for me a big piece of saying,
 "Cread, I got to push a bunch of this that's not a bunch, but what's negative influence in my life away, and create what we kind of talk about around here of circles.
 I have my inner, we all do here, I don't know if you know, a lot of people don't have this, but for us, like I've got my inner circle of healthy people.
 These are healthy people, it doesn't mean that they don't screw up, you guys are in this healthy circle.
 It doesn't mean that you guys don't screw up, it doesn't mean that there isn't issues, it doesn't mean that there's problem, there isn't problems, it means that the people inside of my healthy circle are all seeking God more than anything else,
 that they're seeking a relationship that's impacting eternity as opposed to setting up their best life here.
 And then outside of that, you start having circles of influence of close friends, friends, acquaintances, and in there is every bit of love for people,
 but for me to make sure that I don't screw up, I segment who I allow to influence me, right?
 And I think that's a very smart thing to do. Now, what I'm not saying is I don't spend time with people outside of my inner circle,
 what I'm actually spend a lot of time influencing people outside of my inner circle, right? teaching, guiding, helping, coaching, being there for people, whatever I can't, just being an ear, right?
 Doing whatever I can, but when it comes to the influence side, rarely do I allow outside of my first one or two circles to really be an influence on my life.
 So I think that was a huge piece for me of putting a stock to negative influences.
 Yeah, that's a powerful thing.
 And I'll just add on something Joel was saying too that I think is just fantastic where the whole recognizing that piece and what you were just talking about Joel,
 how often do we easily see the negative influences and other people, but then don't stop and see the own negative influences were portraying ourselves.
 And that's where that one really hit me as you were sitting there talking about really hit me go and gosh, when am I, you know, it's easy for me to see all these other negative influences people have,
 but where am I portraying negative influences on other people? How am I holding other people back?
 Yeah, totally.
 I think that's probably one of the most powerful pieces.
 You know, we do talk a lot about victim mentality here.
 If everything is happening to you and only these people are negative influences, we all all three of us have a good amount of eye.
 And you know, high eyes we can be victims, we can everything is happening to me.
 I'm not doing it.
 That is just absolutely wrong.
 When you start to recognize how you're hurting somebody, so many God turns on to take right now.
 You know, when you start to recognize that then it makes a big difference on how you act in the choices that you make.
 So number three question number three, what motivated you to start seeking positive or in essence the right influences?
 Yeah, for me, I'll jump in first.
 It honestly was recognition of who God created me to be and who he wanted me to be.
 And really stepping outside of like you were just talking about Chris, what is it that that I want?
 What are my desires? What is it I, you know, what is it I'm seeking?
 And instead going, what is it God wants for me? What is he leading me to?
 And that revelation right there for me is what force me to go hang on time out.
 Why am I allowing these negative influences to have an impact on me? Why am I allowing these things to shape who I am?
 And instead of really going, okay Lord, who is it that I am to you? What is my worth to you?
 And then taking that and going, gosh, now those negative influences don't matter to me anymore.
 There are no longer influences. Now I'm going, gosh, let me go find positive influences.
 Let me go find the things that do matter.
 You know, what is his words say about me? What does, what is the creator of the world who has he created me to be?
 And seeking those things out, those answers out, that has a huge impact for me.
 I think for me, the first place I can think of really goes back to graduating high school and then going to college.
 And because I started to think about, hey, it's now time to do something man.
 It's like you have done pretty much nothing. You graduated high school with like a 2.5 GPA. I skirted by.
 I just didn't care, I did enough to get by. But when I got to college, I was like, it's now time to kick things into gear because it's the thing that stands between you and your career.
 I didn't mean to make up a poem right there, but yet I did.
 I was just, I'll try to do that three more times throughout the episode.
 So, what I kind of stumbled upon it though, because I got going in college and realized, I'm sorry.
 Potry. Yeah, so that's it. I got more formal about it. Speaking of college.
 I'd love creative writing class. I loved it. And I had a girlfriend. I could write stuff to you.
 That's real pretty terrible looking back at it. But that's not their hudder there.
 But I signed a stumble upon it because I got into college and started realizing, I was like, wait a minute.
 I'm meeting like all of these people that are leaders in the school and their leading student activities and all this stuff that was like, this is awesome.
 I love this. And I'm very utility with my learning and I always have been.
 So there's only been brief moments of time when I would go read a bunch of stuff that had no economic benefit, meaning like ROI or any utility, you know, benefited all.
 It was very rare. But I've always been that way. And I started realizing, wait a second, I am learning so much about life and about this thing called purpose.
 And godly people in this whole world of opportunity started opening up to me that I was so exciting to me.
 I remember when I met his name is Joe Martin. He was a motivational speaker.
 And he opened my eyes to this whole concept of purpose. Like, why are you here and living intentionally?
 And it set off a fire inside of me. And it was like, it's so depression that God gave me that I never knew was there.
 And that started moving me forward to now pursuing this type of influence because it was so exciting for me.
 And then that led to career choices and then on all through academics and half of my time in college was spent in student activities because it was such a strength and a passion of mine.
 And then it just continued on from there into other areas of life such as relationship with God and so on and so forth.
 So for me, interestingly, I've pretty much always sought out positive influence. Once again, I was a pretty darn good kid.
 I made more of my mistakes later on in my 20s and stuff.
 But as a youth, I didn't like, you know, very high S, didn't like conflict, didn't want to hurt people, all that kind of stuff.
 But I can go all the way back to remembering my football coach when I was in pop Warner football. So we're talking about, you know, junior high.
 I played it, I think I started an elementary school.
 I can go back to Mike Macherry who was just this amazing dominant guy, but a great guy.
 He was always yelling at the kids, but we didn't think anything of it. I mean, he was fainting everybody loved, thought the world of him.
 And he was on a plane and the plane dropped out of the air and everybody freaked out and his wife was sitting next to him and he's just sitting there.
 And when everything came back around, she's like, how were you not scared? And he said, I've lived a good life. God has got this. If it's my time to go, it's my time to go.
 I remember that from back in those days and being so influenced by that and that making such a huge impact of me wanting to seek God and learn more about God.
 That I've always kind of sought positive influences of always enjoyed positive influences because I've always known how it's benefited my life.
 I think by far the biggest time that I really started seeking positive influences is after, you know, failed relationships in my 20s and well, eight failed relationships in my 20s where it's just like,
 I'm going the wrong direction and it's not even horrid, it's just not great, it's not good.
 And I made a decision, well, I made a decision not to date for three years, which was a fantastic decision, it turned out to be six.
 But it just focused my relationship on God and that was crazy powerful and that was in my early mid 20s and that was huge. And I think at that point I really started looking around and asking myself to question,
 this is the influences that have been in my life for the last, you know, ten years or so or a little bit less than that and this is how jacked up things got for quite a period of time.
 I don't like that, that's not fun. I want things different, so I started looking at positive people.
 You know, things that we're doing that people that we're doing things in a positive way, especially in a more godly type of way and I think that's why I really started knowing that I was looking in the right direction.
 So, all right, question number four, what's been the greatest influence for positive change outside of the Bible?
 I love that caveat, right?
 Because that's where we will go, right? You have to go. Yeah, my first answer, okay, here's my second answer.
 Straight to Elijah. Straight to.
 All right, Aaron, you want to go? You know, I think for me, I've had some amazing godly men and couples in my past and in my relationships that have helped really significantly guide me.
 And it's not just that they've been fun people, they've been kind people that they're willing to call me out and hold me accountable to things.
 Kind of a funny story here for you guys, you guys, man, even though this story.
 Before a decade when we were dating, we actually went through a 40 day fast together and our fast was actually from each other. So we did not communicate with each other for 40 days.
 Wow.
 And it did a Bible study at the same time, but we had a couple. I do remember that you told me that you were sick of this. Yeah, and we had a couple who who were our accountability people through that whole thing.
 They were a married couple that we respected and knew.
 And so they, they communicated with us, but they kept us accountable through that that 40 day fast and really it was praying about our relationship. What is our relationship going to look like?
 And thankfully coming out of that 40 day fast, I felt the same thing that she did. And so she said yes, not long after that, but yeah, that whole thing.
 We had people like that who would pour into us who would help shape us and call us out on things when we were, when we were, you know, being stupid and doing stupid and willing to hold us accountable and love us for who we were.
 You know, I'll say I have had since especially going back to like half my life ago, I have had tremendous positive influences in my life.
 And I think about people like Patricia Myers at Pelsipy State in Knoxville.
 I, and so many other people, Pat stands above most back in that time, if my life. And onward into the military, I mean countless positive influences of people I work for in particular commanders who were just amazing people all the way through.
 But I will tell you, and it's not because you're sitting here in front of me, but my, what we, it was called life planned.
 In fact, in fact, in my next civil life experience though, now seven or eight years ago, was the greatest two days of positive influence that I have ever had.
 And I point to back to it, and I talk about it almost every week when I lead someone through, because it was no joke.
 It was the major turning point in my life for so many reasons, and it's what now 400 plus people have come through this process and experienced as well, that I cite so much, now years later, so much fruit, so much health, so much growth in God.
 Mary Beth and I, I mean, especially when she went through her event a couple years later, the amount of positive, I'll say impact in result in our life today and years leading up to today directly links back to our individual events.
 So I had to jump on that banwagon as well. When I took myself through this process years ago, long time ago, one of the most powerful things for me, and it's funny because it ends up, and it starts out in a negative, but ends up in a positive.
 It was recognizing my lack of healthy boundaries in my own life and not knowing it, like literally teaching people, helping people, but healthy boundaries in place, helping them get healthy, helping them make right decisions, doing all kinds of stuff.
 And it was, again, it was that proverbial two by four upside the head of just stop. This is enough.
 And I remember just this powerful moment of going, and it's, you know, sometimes I'll share this with people of like, hey, you need to grow a backbone, right?
 There's this area of your life is missing this, right? You're missing, it wasn't a backbone, it was something else, but we're going to use backbone in here because it was, hey, it was this, hey, you're teaching people, you're helping people and you're not seeing that this exists in your own life and man.
 It was really difficult because not, I was ready. I was ready to put the healthy boundaries in place. I knew it was something that needed to be done. And I knew it was something that was holding me back from an incredible amount of freedom and God, because I was putting something else before, you know, a human being before my relationship with God.
 Way before I was way more concerned about this person than I was myself. And so when I started putting those healthy boundaries in place, man, it made things a bajillion times worse.
 But so that part I don't love.
 But it became, it ended up being the greatest influence for me to go enough, as enough, as enough, as enough. I've got to take responsibility for what I'm allowing.
 I've got to take responsibility for not having shut certain things down in certain areas of my life and certain aspects and bad decisions I'm making and all of this crap. It just became this phenomenal change in my life for positivity.
 Again, I help people to understand a lot, you know, and you do as well, Joe, in next level of life, that this, when you start to really set healthy boundaries, because you're taking responsibility, you're not being a victim, you're taking responsibility because they're your choices. You're allowing this to happen. You're allowing somebody to impact you in a certain way.
 This is you, right? And so everybody listening to this, there is a freedom when it stops being somebody else who's doing it and it becomes, oh, I'm allowing it.
 Because then it's a shift in mindset. And that became so positive for me because again, it went really bad.
 And then has had the most phenomenal, you know, what a bar graph curve up over the years of just being super positive. So, all right, we're going to take a break, but when we come back, we'll be talking about why influence has such a deep impact on our lives and how to push back against those negative influences. That's right after this.
 Freedom, it's so powerful. I felt rejuvenated, almost renewed, to some degree.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment. So, it was very comfortable there.
 That had a really big impact on me. It's going to be worth it. It's going to be hard. It's going to be even better on the other side.
 It was just very refreshing. And I want to say life giving for me. It really was.
 You know, I would go to the next level of life again and probably again and probably again because it's so powerful.
 I want you to ask yourself a question, could you hear the sense of hope and freedom and their voices just then?
 I want you to know that could be you. Look, it's easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns and unhealthy relationships.
 It's going to take some work, but yes, there is hope for you. If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation,
 the same kind of self-awareness and freedom that they have or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like for you,
 then head on over to Chrissacordo.com/nextlevellife.
 [Music]
 Folks, the information that we choose to consume will ultimately shape our character. So information is an informative process.
 We become what we choose to receive and incorporate it into our lives.
 Chrissac, that's, I was going to say that sounds a lot like the old Ziggs-Eggler statement that he used to say where, you know, he'd say, I read the newspaper in the Bible, both in the morning, just because I want to know what both sides were doing.
 [Laughs]
 Isn't that exactly it? Wow, that's so powerful to think about that that way. Even in that statement, you can see the power of negative influence, right?
 So that's awesome. Alright, we got some bonus questions for us to talk through. So here's the first one.
 How can someone listening to this episode put a stop to wrong influences?
 I think the first thing you got to do is you got to be able to recognize what those wrong influences are.
 You've got to be able to see what they are, you got to be able to call them out.
 And on top of that, I think you've got to be able to put people around you who can help you see right positive influences and hold you accountable to those things.
 Hold you accountable to not allowing those negative influences to have an impact on you.
 Yeah, totally. So for me, there's three areas that you have to recognize as you're talking about Aaron, one of those being the people, who actually is speaking into your life.
 I mean, seriously, there might even be times where you have negative coworkers that are just a drain because you keep allowing them to have a negative influence.
 Doesn't mean that you can't help out. It doesn't mean that you sit there and treat them like crap there, you know, a creation of God as well.
 But you have to recognize how it's influencing you.
 It could be relatives, you know, like you talked about the four view boys all impacting each other negatively, not recognizing it, but once you did, what a powerful thing it was to switch that around.
 It could be people that you've put up on a pedestal.
 There, believe it or not, it's sometimes hard to understand.
 First off, nobody should be on a pedestal, except for for Jesus.
 But sometimes we'll put people in places and not realize the negative effect that they're having on us.
 They might even be really good and really positive in many ways, but still having a negative impact on us.
 So people is a huge, huge piece. You've got to recognize who's influencing you.
 Not just who you'd spend time with because you could spend time with somebody, you know, you could work on the same building with somebody all day long and they don't have an influence on you.
 We're talking about the folks that literally are influencing in your life, even if it's five minutes, you know, it doesn't even matter how much time you spend with them, are they having an influence.
 Another thing for me, and this is a big one for me going back to the ZIG quote, "What you read?"
 Let me change out the word, read to consume.
 What you consume information wise.
 It's funny, a lot of times people will ask me, "Have you read this book over here?"
 It's something that, you know, "Hey, it sounds like it's a great book," or whatever,
 "I spend so much of my time consuming stuff on God."
 It is the book, "Bi-far."
 "Bi-far."
 "My wife and I spend a large amount of time every single day."
 And at least double or triple that amount of time on weekends of just consuming God stuff.
 Because here's the way I look at it again back to the ZIG quote.
 The more I know about that, the better decisions I make here, the better decisions I make for eternity, right?
 But one thing I have really had to change, and it started back with Al Gore, who invented the internet.
 Thank you, Al.
 Thank you.
 I'm going to let this podcast with you.
 It's a good thing.
 It's a good thing.
 It was a for Al Gore.
 We would not have Aaron coming in on the computer.
 Andy's a Tennessee, and so, you know.
 Right, right, right.
 It's actually, I blame Al Gore for this, but that's just funny.
 It's not Al Gore.
 It's again, back to three times.
 Go back to the ZIG quote.
 It was the news.
 During the Bush Gore election.
 And this is how long it's been since I've watched the news.
 So literally, I had not watched the news unless it was like in no choice because it's in an airport or something like that.
 I hadn't literally just sat down watching the news until my honeymoon and COVID hit.
 So I'm trying to find out what I need to do.
 And the reason is simple.
 I would get up in the morning and I would turn that on while I was getting ready and I would head to work upset.
 I would find myself mad.
 I mean, just mad.
 And after doing that for like a couple of weeks, I realized I've never done good watching the news.
 Right?
 I've never actually done good after I've had sat down and watched the news for a while because there's always what's the intention nowadays.
 It's always to, you know, if it bleeds, it leads, if it's, you know, if it could create frustration or fear or whatever,
 this is the stuff we're putting out there.
 And I found myself being really jacked up by watching it.
 But it doesn't stop there, right?
 I've had to make sure that there's a whole lot of social platforms I do not have on my phone.
 I will not have it with me because it is a at the very minimum, a time drain on your brain.
 At the very minimum, it is a waste of time on your brain, right?
 Very minimum.
 Then you take a look at what's being said, what's being shown.
 Everything is sexy nowadays, everything is negative.
 You've got all of this crap that just piles up into your brain.
 And then you sit there and wonder why life is the way that it is, right?
 So I think information is, you know, the stuff that we consume on a daily basis is huge.
 If you just take a look, even if you read the wrong, I don't know, comic strip.
 Does anybody read comic strips anymore?
 I don't know if there's strips.
 Is it the Zigwood because you would still have the newspaper?
 They would do.
 Whatever it is, even if you're just looking at something that's supposed to give you joy, but instead it doesn't.
 And then I think the third thing, and this is again, so powerful for what we teach here, is your thought patterns.
 The things that you're processing in your brain.
 I believe it's flipping for correct me on this.
 As if flipping is for 16, those things that are lovely, those things that appear or those things that are, hopefully I got that right.
 I would wish I could just correct you or check you on the fly, but I can't.
 So, air is pulling it up.
 Yeah, Chris, that is a that's flipping for verse eight. It says finally brothers and sisters, whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable.
 If anything is excellent or praiseworthy, think about such things.
 So, so powerful.
 When you think about the negative thoughts that we have all day long, right?
 Here's what I know. I could watch the news for, I don't know, 10, 15 minutes and go to work mad.
 Upset.
 Because that influence is jacking up my thought patterns.
 And what do we see here? If you change the things you're thinking about and you put in these things that are lovely, these things that are pure, if you put this kind of stuff in your brain, then an amazing thing happens, those become the things you're thinking of.
 Right? So, I'm currently, I hate that I've never read the hidden place or the hiding place. Thank you Mary Beth Fortner.
 Bob will study last week. She was, I said something and she goes, that reminds me of the hiding place, which is Cory 10 boom story.
 And so, I immediately bought audiobook that night and I've been going through it and I'm just like, "Oh, I'm just loving it."
 But one of the most powerful things is her father. Her father's attitude all the time was just so pure and so positive.
 And I love she had a lot in there. She's like, "My father, who was never deceptive or even could recognize deception."
 Because he was so sweet, such a great man. And just the thoughts of, if somebody needed help with their coat being put on going out the door, picking up a tool that dropped on the floor, it's just that sweetness, right?
 And he lived in God's word and just that thought of the more pure, precious things you put in, the more pure precious things you'll think about. The more crap you put in, well, by default, the more crap that comes out.
 Yeah, I think in other piece, all that's absolutely fantastic. Another thing that comes to mind is, is to set goals, is to set positive goals and then you're like, "Okay, this is where I want to be in my life."
 That's good. And all these different areas. And then go and get the information that you need. Go get the coaching, the books, the podcasts, the videos, the courses, whatever it is that helps you get to where you want to be.
 And then you get that information because so much of the time, especially with media consumption, it's reactive. It's just, well, flip open Instagram, flip it up in Facebook, jump on TikTok, whatever, or just go to Google News, or just turn on the news and whatever I'm fed today.
 But it's all reactivating. I have a moment without anything influenced lately. I need some sort of influence, do some.
 Absolutely. On the phone. But it's just it's reactive living, though, rather than, "Where do you want to go in your life? What are your goals this year?"
 And then go after the information that's going to really get you there and then you get really, really good at that. And that becomes your new force of habit.
 That's powerful. Being proactive versus reactive. And as you say, set those goals, here's the key to setting goals.
 Yet of a plan. Right? It's not enough to say, "I want a better marriage." What are the things you're doing to have a better marriage? What are the things you're doing to have better kids?
 Exactly. What are the things you're doing to have a better career put those steps in place? That's really good.
 All right. So how can someone listening to this episode start incorporating the right ones?
 You know, I would just say what we've been talking about here. I feel like we've answered this question in many ways already.
 I think it's one of the biggest pieces when it comes to influences is awareness. It's understanding. It's being intentional. It's being proactive.
 Kind of like everything with success in life. Success is not going to come from reaction.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. That's a good idea.
 If I'm emotionally eating, I have that part in my life where pasta was my nightly.
 I've never had a sugar guy, but man, give me a bowl of pasta every night. That was happy for me.
 And just making that adjustment. How do you stop emotionally eating? Well, you've got to solve the thing that's creating the emotional problem.
 If you need help getting away from the negative influences in your life that are pulling you down, go back to and listen to episode 4 or 4,
 which is replacing negative influences in your life with the right ones.
 Also feel free to send us a question or comment to podcast at Chris LeCard.
 You might have something that you want to hear us talk about, send it in. There's something you want to hear.
 So as a summary, really take a hard look at all aspects of what's influencing you.
 Whether it's information, whether it's people, whether it's your own thought patterns,
 start taking a hard look at those right down a list if you need to.
 Of the things that are really affecting you in a negative way.
 Whatever it is, obviously, our hope is for everybody to go through next level of life.
 Everybody does it. Everybody does. We have had folks with the worst situations in life.
 We've had folks with barely anything negative in their lives that have had just powerful amazing next level of life.
 So don't hold back. If that's something you want to do, ChrisCardle.com. Click on Next Level Life.
 Folks, as always, I hope this has helped you out. Gentlemen, as always, thank you for joining me on the show.
 Yeah, thanks Chris. It's always fun to join even if it is virtually.
 Thank you, Al Gore. Yeah. It's cool. We can see you all the way in Crossville.
 It's the neatest thing. It's also a hat-tip to Al Gore. I hope you'll be listening to this show.
 There you go. I'd be kind of fun. Now it's all. It's self-independence.
 It's always fun to. I love that you just use the word "meat." That's fantastic.
 Well, folks, as always, we hope this information has helped you today. Take this information in.
 Change your leadership. Change your business.
 Change your life. And, Jonas, on the next episode.
 [Music]