 In the month of October we have been focusing on clarity and purpose in your life, but what now?
 How to maintain your course with confidence that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life,
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 I'm sure you've heard the phrase before "take courage" or maybe an older version of that would be like
 "take heart". Now these are common phrases in the Bible and they're good encouragement for us today.
 When it comes to setbacks, when it comes to adversity, when it comes to challenges that are going to come our way,
 somebody wants to add in and I say somebody because I don't know actually who it was,
 you can choose to be discouraged once that backs come or you can choose the courage to move forward
 with confidence. Folks, life is full of triggers to fear and feel out of control.
 This is something that we must come to grips with. We have to get to a place where we recognize
 that there's a whole ton of crap that can cause us to fear. But fear in itself
 is actually focusing on something that has yet to happen. Now you've heard me say this
 a bajillion times on the show. There are two types of fear. There's the type of fear that is a
 legitimate a lion is running after me. I should go ahead and be fearful right now and make some
 decisions based on a lion's running after me. And then there's the fear that so many people live in
 day and day out which is the fear of the unknown or the fear of something that hasn't happened,
 the fear of assumption. That fear is a colossal waste of life. There are going to be things that
 are going to happen. There's going to be issues. Maybe right now you're going through a breakup. Maybe
 you're in the middle of a divorce. Maybe you've just been fired from your job or you've lost your job.
 Here's what I want to encourage you. I want to encourage you to put on courage instead.
 I know. But if you're out there going sounds heck of a lot easier, Chris. Well, listen.
 It's actually not as difficult as you think it is. The truth is you do not have to be a victim to your
 circumstance. What is victim mentality? This is happening to me. I don't have any control here.
 I don't have any abilities, any power, any decision making process that's going to change things.
 This situation is happening to me. The first thing that is wrong with that is you do have choices.
 You do have the ability to experience this crappy process in a different way.
 Especially if the first place you go to is God. Why? Oh, why? Do we have so many people who claim to be
 Christians who claim to be Christ followers that do not have confidence that God is playing a part in their life?
 Instead, what do we normally feel like when we see things like a breakup happening or
 getting fired from a job? Where are you God? How come you're not here? Why aren't you helping me?
 The tends to be a way that a lot of people think. Where is God now? The funny thing is
 is that if we go through God's word, what we do discover is always. God is using stress,
 and strain, and struggle to grow us. So to be a victim is to say, all this is happening to you,
 and you have no options. You can't do anything about it. And that God's not got a better plan with this situation.
 So here's what I want you to do. Don't take setbacks personally.
 Setbacks are going to come. How many of you out there are old enough to have had enough breakups
 to realize that none of those people would have been the right person for you?
 Even if you just look at one breakup, surely, there's enough people old enough and have had enough breakups
 to look back and go, wow, thank you Lord. Right, think of the the Garth song. Man, there's an
 unanswered prayer right there, right? That I'm not with that person because we would not have made it.
 We would just been a train, right? Or, you know, they just weren't right for me, and I wasn't right for them.
 I want you to start taking courage and taking a look at the obstacle as a stepping stone.
 This obstacle exists. This situation has happened. Things are going on. What do you do with it?
 Do you just look at the situation and be a victim and wait to the storm passes over and just
 write it out or do you take courage and utilize this as a stepping stone? Now I will tell you,
 God for many years, in my early years, was telling me that I was not spending enough time with him in prayer,
 and I was not spending enough time in his work. It was through a incredibly
 traumatic situation in my life that I finally dropped to my knees and said, I can't do anything else without you.
 This hurts. This is so painful. This is so difficult for me. I don't want to go through this without you.
 And I know, and I know, and I know, that I've not focused enough on you. Folks, I will tell you
 that that was one of the most powerful situations in my life coming out of the most painful situation in my life.
 I've ever experienced was the most powerful walk with God Almighty, my father, my the lover of my soul,
 the one who consistently pursues me, it created the best walk I've ever had in my life.
 So I could look back at that traumatic situation and go, man, that was just painful and complain about it
 for the next 25 years, which so many people really do. You can see people holding on to their biggest
 pains and hurts for decades, even blaming other people for them. Or, I can look at that and praise God
 for what he brought me out of. What he helped me through. That's what I choose to do. Take courage.
 When you start to feel fear, when you start to feel fear, say that three times less, take courage
 when fear arises, when you are feeling like a victim, when you feel like everything is just happening to you,
 and you have no way out, take courage. Tell yourself, I'm not going to be a victim.
 I know that God is completely aware of what I'm going through, and instead of being fearful,
 I should seek him. What in the world does he want to use this situation for to grow me in my life?
 The second thing I want you to do is I want you to follow your instruments. Now remember,
 the instrument rated pilot relies on instruments to navigate. This is saying that that pilot can't
 see well. There's a reason why they're focusing on the instruments, right? In biblical terms,
 we call this walking or living by faith and not by sight. The believer has different
 instruments available that help him or her to walk through life with courage.
 Like what? Well, the Bible itself God's written word. The Holy Spirit.
 If you are a true believer, if you have faith in God, if you are moving in the direction of
 the kingdom of forgiveness, then you've got God's presence inside of you. You also have prayer,
 the ability to talk to the king of the universe. When the Holy of Holy is the curtain that separated
 all of us from the Holy of Holy is was written to that was saying, you now have a direct relationship
 with God. You do not have to go through anybody else. There is nobody over you except our high priest,
 Jesus or as we would say by his Hebrew name Yeshua. He's the only one that is between you and the
 father. The other great instrument you have is the fellowship of other believers. If you have strong
 believers that are moving in the direction of God and away from the direction of the world and the worldly
 things, those are people to stay tight with. Those are people to have as counsel in your life.
 Also what we teach here. Battling the lies with the truths when the lies come up and they are telling
 you how horrible things are and how bad things aren't, how bad you are and how undeserving you are and
 how unworthy you are. We find out why we're telling ourselves that and we battle it with the truth. What
 is God's truth. Now I'll tell you, this takes a lot of practice and I recently had a situation that
 came up that it could affect the vision that we have for the ridge, the very vision that we have for
 growing this business and away that helps people get their lives and their businesses changed even
 deeper even stronger. The vision that we believe God has given us for the future and this situation
 came up, that could affect that. And in each situation there's always two options.
 Righteousness and unrighteousness, choosing to do what is right by God and choosing to do what is right
 by man. While I will tell you, having used my instruments for a long time now, God continues to
 pound something home over and over and over again. Choose me or choose yourself. If you choose yourself,
 you may get your way in the world, but I can promise you you're going to get what I have for you next,
 which may be pain and struggle and suffering to get you to stop choosing the world and start choosing
 me. I have learned that when I choose the way of the world, it hurts. I may be happy for a moment,
 but something has come along because God does not want me focused on being a man of this world.
 But when I choose his ways, when I choose righteousness, when I stand up for him, when I am not ashamed
 to be his son, when I am not ashamed of him, when I am not ashamed of my Lord and Savior,
 then an amazing thing happens. It may screw up things here on earth, but it draws me closer to my
 father and heaven. It draws me closer to the king of the universe. So think about your life.
 How many times are you concerned about your circumstances? How many times does your perspective get
 clotted by fear or how many times are you confused by conflicting information? All of those things are
 coming because we are not using the instruments that God has given us. To be concerned about our circumstances
 is lack of faith. I am not saying that there are not things that you should really be thinking through
 and gaining quality perspective on what I am saying is if you are going to be fearful, then you are
 saying that you are not trusting God. If your perspective is cloudy because you are fearful,
 then you are not trusting God. If you are confused by conflicting information, then you are not just
 saying God. God is not the author of confusion. He is the author of clarity. So if you are a believer
 out there, then this is your battle plan to get on course first thing we need to do is go to God.
 We need to get in his word. We need to gain greater perspective. We need to battle the fear and the
 lies with the truths. God's truths. In essence, we need to take courage. If you have already begun
 with the end in mind, that is great. But what now? How to maintain your course with confidence
 when we come back right after this? Freedom. It is so powerful. I don't rejuvenate it. I want to
 renew. I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So I was very comfortable there. I had a really big impact on me. It is going to be worth it.
 It is going to be hard. It is going to be even better on the other side. For me, it was just
 very refreshing. I want to say life to me and really was. I would go to the next level of life again
 and probably again. And probably again because it is so powerful. I want you to ask yourself a question.
 Could you hear the sense of hope and freedom? And their voice is just that. I want you to know
 that could be you. Look, it is easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns and
 unhealthy relationships. It is going to take some work. But yes, there is hope for you. If you want
 to experience the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of self-awareness and freedom
 that they have or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like for you, then head on
 over to Chrissacurdo.com/nextlevellife.
 The third thing I want you to do is to refuse to get off course.
 So first thing we need to do to make sure that we're maintaining our course with confidence is to
 take courage. Second thing is to use the instruments that God has given us and the third thing we need to
 do is to refuse to get off course. Now after a setback, a failure, a disaster for the person who has
 used those situations and not acquiesce to them, not focused on fear, not venom, then that person
 is now better equipped to face what's ahead of them. Remember, this life is your training course.
 It's preparing you for the next one for those of us that are believers, our hope is in the transition.
 We are here setting up the next life. After a setback, you now have experience.
 You've experienced this situation. You've gone through it. What are you doing with that experience?
 You have a new perspective. Now, as I say all the time here in a strap plan and other things,
 perspective, it really just means point of view. But for us, quality perspective is being able to
 look at the situation from all aspects, from all different angles. If you have done a good job with
 this setback, not only have you looked at it through your perspective, but you've gained the perspective
 of wise people around you, not those who want to hurt you or knock you down or take you down a notch.
 But instead, wise people. Hopefully, you have gained perspective through prayer with God.
 You've gained perspective from his word. You also have knowledge. You now know something that you
 didn't maybe possibly know before. If you've experienced the setback, you've got experience perspective
 and now you have knowledge as well. These are all things you didn't have before that setback.
 Add to those things persistence. Persistence is saying no matter what, I am not giving in.
 I'm not giving in to this situation. I'm not giving in to this setback. I'm not giving in to
 to feeling like a victim. I'm not giving in to fear. I'm not giving in to, I lost my job and
 I can't do anything about this. Oh, I'm so depressed. I'm so disappointed.
 I have a father who is the king of the universe. He made the universe in
 Pico seconds, which is a Pico second is the time that it takes something traveling at
 light speed across the shaft of a hair. That's a fast he made the universe.
 Everything in order. Everything perfect. Everything the way he wanted it to be.
 He is the one who's in your court. Be persistent knowing that that's who your father is.
 That he loves you. That he's crazy about you. Have determination that you're not going to
 let the setback pull you backwards. But instead that you are going to grow from this. That you
 are going to use this situation and make life better. That you are going to use this situation
 to make better decisions. Have determination that you are going to be in a better situation. If this is
 a broken relationship that is already done and over with, then have determination that you're going
 to find a better relationship than this one. If you're in the midst of it and you're struggling
 in your marriage, have determination that you're going to fix it. That you're going to do whatever it takes
 to solve this. Also take courage. Take courage that you can make this happen.
 If you take courage, if you use the instruments you've been given. If you take this experience
 that you now have and the new perspective and the new knowledge and you add to it persistence
 and determination, then you're going to be unstoppable in getting to the next right or better destination.
 Does that make sense? Your options are soak up the fear, soak up the victim mentality, struggle,
 or make changes. Utilize these tools. If you utilize the tools, then your next destination is going
 to be better than where you currently are. But you've got to refuse to get distracted from your
 goal and destination. Our knee jerk reactions that we can have sometimes the challenges is fear
 drawing us back. It's easy for us to slip into survival mode. Oh my gosh, this thing is so painful.
 It's so difficult. I just need to survive through this. Well, here's what I'm going to tell you.
 I hate survival mode. Now, let me say what I really hate. I hate it when people call themselves
 "survive "urse" and what they really mean is is that they have a life full of crap and they never
 get to thrive in. Does that make sense? What I'm saying? I'm not saying I hate people who have
 survived something. We've all survived things. I've survived the ton of things. But to not get yourself
 into a position where those things don't happen or they don't have the negative effect,
 they don't take you down, they don't impact you horribly. To get to that place, you must choose to
 thrive. You must choose to make the changes in your life that get you out of the negative crap.
 If you've got bad influences in your life, now's the time. Now's the time.
 Seek out positive influences. Seek out people who are moving in the right directions and the direction
 you want to go in. Seek out people who have experience. Listen, millennials. Let me speak to you.
 Now, every generation before you has had a level of this but goodness gracious millennials.
 So many of you are looking to the people in your age group for wisdom.
 It is amazing to me to see a 19-year-old person, a 20-year-old person,
 sure off phenomenal wisdom from somebody with great experience and talk to another 19-year-old person
 and follow everything they say. Now, once again, we've all experienced that but my gosh,
 it's happening a lot lately. If you are going to survive, well, then keep doing that.
 But if you want to thrive in life, start seeking out people who have been successful,
 start seeking out people who have done things to get ahead in life that have caused them to thrive.
 Don't stick around the person who keeps wanting to complain about their life and point you in the wrong
 directions and tell you that they have all the answers and yet when you look at the fruit in their life,
 it's just not there. Instead, find people with great fruit in their lives.
 Find people who have been successful in the areas that you want to grow. So, question for you.
 What are some of the life goals that you're trying to achieve right now? Are you trying to have a healed
 family? Are you trying to get out of debt? Are you trying to increase your education? Are you
 starting your own business? Are you trying to get healthier physically or mentally?
 For any of these or any other great moving forward, thriving the life goals that you're trying to achieve
 right now. I've got some questions for you to reflect on. The first one is, who do you have in your life right now
 helping you to walk courageously and confidently towards the goal that's ahead of you?
 Ask yourself that question. If they're not healthy and helping you get to that destination,
 then why are these influences in your life? Where are you relying on God or not relying on him
 to lead you further down the path? Take a hard look. You're making big decisions. You've got
 big life goals that you're trying to attain. Where is God a part of that process or where is he not
 a part of it? The more you can recognize the need for God in every one of these life goals,
 the easier it's going to be for you to accomplish them. Or decide that they're not the right
 goals of the first place. I've had that many times when I looked at it from the God perspective and decided
 it wasn't the thing to go out there. Number three, what information are you feeding on that's helping you
 to achieve these life goals? What's the stuff that you're putting in you? What's influencing you
 that's helping you to achieve these life goals? So if you've got some life goals and my gosh,
 I hope you do. If you don't, now's the great time to sit down and start working on that. I want you to be
 using all of these reflecting questions. I want you to be using all of these tools to make decisions.
 So sit down after listening to this or hopefully you've been doing it as you've been listening to this
 and start taking a hard look. What are the life goals that I have? What am I doing about it? What
 influences do I have in my life? Good or bad? Where is God and all of this? If you do those things,
 then I can promise you you will make considerably better decisions on these life goals. Well folks,
 hope this is helped you today. As always, take this information in really dig deep. Ask yourself the
 questions I've asked you. Take a hard look at your life. Make the decisions you need to make today.
 Take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]