 While strengthening your emotional stability may be your best defense against the craziness of the world we live in, that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life, and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks, hope you're having a fabulous day.
 Before we get into today's topic, if you've not heard about our upcoming next-level leadership live event,
 then you gotta go check this out. This is our biggest event of the year in registration opens
 Thursday, December 9th, with 40% off ticket prices. That's hundreds of regular ticket pricing.
 So don't miss it. You're gonna learn deep lessons that have helped our coaching clients transform their teams
 and their businesses and get more time back for the rest of their life. Now, if you're asking yourself,
 is this event right for me? Well, that's simple to answer. If you're stuck in struggling in business,
 we're gonna show you how to get out of that once and for all by doing the right things. Now, if you're
 absolutely killing an in business, you're gonna learn new growth opportunities and the steps on how to get there.
 We're gonna help you identify what's holding you back and give you a plan to fix it. We've had people go from being in crisis mode
 to absolutely killing it that have literally changed the way they grow their business. It's seriously been that profound.
 We have a ton more information on the website when we open registration. Right now, you want to go to
 Chrisacriddle.com/nextleveledarshipawandword to sign up to be among the first to learn that registration is open and
 say 40% off your tickets. Now, moving on, here's a deal. We are living in a time where things are getting a little crazy.
 There's a decent amount of tension all over. No matter where you go, we find that people are struggling emotionally.
 We find a lot of emotional instability. And guess what? There's actually no guarantee that things are going to get any easier
 in this crazy world that we live in. So, in fact, it's incredibly possible or even highly likely that things are going to just get
 crazy. So, what are you doing to make sure that you're up to the challenge of living this life? And I don't just mean surviving.
 I think if you've been with me for any decent amount of time, I don't mind you having survived. I don't want you to be a
 survivor as a title. I want you to thrive. I have survived a lot in life, but I don't stay in survival mode, right?
 I mean really living, thriving in these crazy times. What does that look like? So, today, I'm going to want you through a process
 to overhaul your emotional fortitude. So, the first thing that we have to do is, we have to recognize our current condition.
 Self awareness is one of the best tools you can use to assess your condition and improve it, right? No matter where you are.
 If you're not self aware, what in the world do you work on? What do you change? What do you fix?
 What do you make sure is strong and stable and ready to move forward, right? So, we have to be self aware.
 So, we can understand what we should focus on, what we should work on. So, when we're talking about emotional stability,
 we're talking about your ability to remain focused, stable, balanced, under pressure.
 So, let's just take a little survey right now. I'm going to ask you a couple of questions.
 What are the triggers you're experiencing in life that send you off the rails? No. Some of you out there may be saying,
 "Oh, Chris, I never go off the rails." Okay. Well, what are the triggers you experience in life that
 frustrate you? What are the triggers you experience in life that causes you to have conflict? What are those things that when they happen,
 they start a process of you feeling emotionally in stable, right? Unstable. Maybe that's a better way to say.
 Another question is, what are those triggers or things that we might even call surface-level responses around here?
 Say about your emotional fortitude, right?
 So, if you're feeling out of control in the moment and that causes you to go off the rails,
 trying to control situations, what does that say about your emotional fortitude?
 If you're a people pleaser and you feel like you're not pleasing somebody, and that causes you to
 go off the rails and maybe the term go off the rails isn't connecting with you. Maybe it causes you to feel
 like you're losing worth or frustrated or whatever. What does that say about your emotional fortitude?
 Right? Does that say that you're emotionally strong in the moment, right?
 Or if we ask the third question, how are your current responses to those emotions,
 either helping or hurting you? So, one of the most frustrating things that I am seeing over and over and over again,
 right now, is this concept that you have to feel every emotion that you have,
 that you have to experience every emotion and this ridiculous response that says,
 "I cannot deny my emotions. Oh, for the love, yes, you can." Listen, when we come back, we're going to
 talk about why you can't afford to neglect your emotions, but for the love, you can't afford to be
 led by them either. Right? So, when we come back, we're going to talk about that.
 Freedom, it's so powerful. I don't rejuvenate and I'm all renewed. I just felt so welcomed and loved
 and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment, so I was very comfortable there.
 That had a really big impact on me. It's going to be worth it. It's going to be hard,
 but it's going to be even better on the other side. For me, it was just very refreshing.
 And I want to say life, give me, and really was. You know, I would go to the next of a life again,
 and probably again, and probably again, because it's so powerful. I want you to ask yourself a question,
 could you hear the sense of hope and freedom and their voices just then? I want you to know
 that could be you. Look, it's easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns, and unhealthy
 relationships. It's going to take some work, but yes, there is hope for you. If you want to experience
 the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of self-awareness and freedom that they have,
 or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like for you, then head on over to
 Chrisacordo.com/nexlevellife. All right, we are talking about emotional stability and how to strengthen
 and increase our emotional stability. Before the break, I talked about how there's a bad
 teaching out there that is saying that you have to experience every emotion. You have to allow every
 emotion to be felt and be experienced. And I need to tell you that that is terrible teaching. I'm not saying
 that you need to deny all of your emotions, but I will tell you this. One of the strongest things that we
 see coming through next-level life is victim mentality. In victim mentality says that everything is
 happening to me. In the moment when something's not going my way, I emotionally feel like a victim.
 That this is happening to me. Guess what? Rarely when we are having victim mentality, are we actual
 victims? But what is the emotion say? Yeah, we are. You know you're a victim. This is happening to you.
 This person is doing this. You can't do anything about this. This is all going to happen and you need to
 feel every bit of it. Well, there's what it takes. There's what it changed that. How about gathering perspective?
 Asking questions like, am I actually a victim? Well, if I follow the hoarded teaching out there
 that says that you must experience all of your emotions. You must feel all of your emotions. You must
 not deny a single emotion. Then guess what? I'm a victim. And I convince myself I'm a victim. And I
 operate as the one with victim. But if I just take a hard look at the actual perspective of the
 situation, if I'm a victim, then what can I do to fix it? But if I'm not a victim, then what in the world
 am I doing telling myself that all of this is happening to me? Now, everybody listening to this can probably
 say, oh, I know people like that. But ask yourself the question, when do you operate in victim
 mentality? When do you feel like everything is happening to you? Well, if you are operating in a victim
 mindset that these things happen and there's nothing you can do about it and so on and so forth and
 yadayada, yadayada, then guess what? That's not a whole lot of emotional fortitude. What is it? What
 do I mean when I say emotional fortitude? What I mean is that you can withstand difficult situations.
 When difficult situations come along, your emotions don't absolutely destroy you. They don't
 wreck you. They don't shut you down. You don't lose your mind. You don't freak out. You don't
 run around in anxiety. I am not saying there aren't situations where anxiety is legit. I've had a couple of
 those. I've had a couple of situations when it was so stressful that it shut me down. The problem
 is how many times do we see even the smallest things shutting people down today? How often do we see
 people that cannot withstand not even difficult situations but slightly difficult situations? Another thing
 that you have to be able to do if you have emotional fortitude is handle adversity. When things come
 at you, things change. When things when you have to change your plans. When you have to change the way
 things are in life. When people mess up or people hurt you or bad things happen, what do you do about
 it? How do you handle adversity? Now this again goes to that part of surviving, right? These are
 things that you have to then survive. However, you shouldn't stay there. You should learn how to go
 beyond it. So another piece of emotional fortitude is remaining productive and capable throughout it.
 Now, I will tell you as somebody who has had situations in my life. Gosh, I don't know how many times,
 but at least two that I can think of situations in my life that were so stressful and painful and
 traumatic, it just shut me down. It just completely shut me down. I remember through one situation
 of two days trying to just sit at my computer and do some work and I don't think I ever actually did anything.
 I just sat there in a very traumatic state. But what I figured afterwards is that wasn't going to
 help me. I had to do something. I had to change something. If I just sat there in the crap and in the
 junk of my pain and in my trauma, then I was just going to live there. So I had to make some changes.
 What do you do when you're experiencing difficult situations? And again, guys, I am not talking about
 your boss got mad at you because you're not doing your job well. I'm not talking about
 your packages didn't make it in time for your kids birthday. I'm talking about difficult situations.
 Tough stuff. Legit tough stuff. Do you remain productive and capable throughout it. If you do,
 you have emotional fortitude. If you want to get unstuck in the instability cycle that you're in,
 then you've got to recognize where you are, where are you currently? You have to know
 that you're in a emotionally weak situation. If you're struggling and you're not making it through
 and you're focused on your emotions too much and you're not able to withstand the situation. You're not
 handling the adversity really well. You're not being productive. Then you have to know that you're an
 emotionally weak situation. And you have to know that there are things that you can do to start
 actually changing it. If you want to get unstuck, you have to start doing things to change being stuck.
 Now, I want to hit things a little bit from the emotional instability side of personality
 styles. When we look at a high personality style, we haven't done something like this in a really long
 time. This is not going to be crazy comprehensive. We're just kind of talking through how to each of the
 different personality styles feel out of control. So if we start with the high-dead, what do they do
 when they feel like they're being out of control? A high-dead seeks to control situations.
 There's two things you usually try to control when you feel out of control. And let me just back up because
 some of you out there, your personality style might say, well, I never feel out of control because the
 definition doesn't land well with you. But if I asked you, how do you feel in the moment, you're like,
 well, frustrated or upset? Okay, do you feel out of control? No, not at all. What do you mean you don't
 feel out of control? Well, I'm perfectly in control of my body right now. Okay, but how do you feel
 inside? Well, I feel horrible? Okay, but that's not out of control. No, because I can control myself.
 Well, the definition isn't a lining, right? The truth is, if you're feeling that frustrated,
 you actually feel out of control. Even though you may not be responding physically, it doesn't mean
 that you're not mentally feeling out of control. So if we take a look at the high-dead, the high-dead
 seeks to control situations and he in, like I was saying, we tend to try and control one of two things.
 People or outcomes, whichever one we can control causes us to feel like or convinces us that we actually
 are in control. The bad thing is controls an illusion. I can't control your feelings, your thoughts,
 your emotions. I can only highly suggest things to you. And if you choose them, then, well,
 there you go. It worked. But I can't make you think anything. I can't make you feel anything. The
 only thing I can do is, you know, if I can physically control you, then there's a level of control that
 I can have, but outside of that, when it comes to your feelings, thoughts, intellect, emotions,
 I got nothing there. I can highly suggest things. And the moment you receive those things,
 then you're being controlled by those thoughts. High-dead tends to feel out of control when they feel
 taken advantage of. It's interesting. If you watch a high-dead, you can have the greatest
 nicest high-dead on the planet, but the moment they feel like people are trying to take advantage of them,
 you can see a light switch flip. They will change. I have seen some become so angry and so mean
 and so self-protective and listen. I am somebody who can't stand being taken advantage of as well.
 But when you watch a high-dead really respond to this, their response is usually
 is anger. Many times it's a threat of anger. But when they genuinely feel taken advantage of,
 they try to control the situation by getting everything back into control. If somebody's taken
 advantage of them, they're going to strike first. They're going to strike next and shut that thing down
 or do whatever they can and stop that thing from happening. When you take a look at a high-eye,
 high-eye is crave acceptance and approval. So they tend to fear being rejected by others.
 So a high-eye will spend a lot of time trying to get people to approve of them. They feel like
 somebody's rejecting them, then their response tends to become one of feeling attacked or feeling victimized.
 What they tend to do is respond back with attacks. The high-eye feels out of control when they are
 striving for stability, for peace, for safety. S. is can't stand change. Neither can see.
 But when you see an S feeling like they are going to lose control because things are going to change
 and it's not going to be in their sweet spot. It's not going to be in something that feels, again,
 controlled. It's not going to be something that feels comfortable. Then you can watch them start to push
 on things, start to get frustrated, start to procrastinate or start to push back saying these are things
 that shouldn't happen. We shouldn't do this thing. We shouldn't change that. We shouldn't
 whatever because they feel out of control. High-C when they feel out of control, high-C's take
 a lot of pride in being accurate, being exact, being correct. So they tend to fear criticism.
 High-C does not like criticism. They don't like being critiqued on the things that they are doing,
 working on the things they know because for them that's a lot of rejection in that situation.
 So what you will see a high-C tend to do when they feel that rejection that criticism is they will
 respond back with all kinds of criticism. They will respond back with attacks as well. They will start to rip
 things apart or they will try and divert and deflect into something else. So when they're feeling
 out of control, you can see their response tends to be gaining control by misdirection,
 by attacking, by whatever it is to get you off of the subject of the criticism about them. So these are,
 again, not comprehensive. These are just overarching responses that we see. And overarching
 struggles that we experience when we feel out of control. So maybe you see a little bit of
 yourself in there. Maybe you see your current emotional condition or tendencies. So what do you do
 with these emotional weaknesses? What do you do with these emotional responses? So the next thing we
 need to do is recognize our daily contribution. So when we break under pressure, feel a lot of control,
 or lose patience with the process we're being challenged with, it can drive us to flat out
 quit. It can drive us to lose perspective. It can drive us to miss out on opportunities.
 What we've got to do is we've got to recognize how we are contributing to that condition
 on a daily basis. If we want to get unstuck. Right? So first thing we need to do is recognize where we
 currently are. But then what we've got to recognize is how we're contributing to that condition on a
 daily basis. If we want to get unstuck, then we've got to take some daily steps toward greater stability
 and health. So let's kind of take a look at some bigger contributing factors that might have us in a place
 where we don't have a lot of emotional fortitude or we aren't as strong as we can possibly be. Now,
 the negative contributors tend to be in the number one. I will tell you that we experience all the time.
 And I'm sure that you experience in your life. Now some of you out there are very, very few
 percentage may struggle with this, but once you think through it, you'll actually see it. The number one
 contributor, the negative contributor is the lies we tell ourselves. The lies that we, I am a victim.
 All this is happening to me. I can't do anything about this. I'll never be good enough.
 I'll never be pretty enough, attractive enough, funny enough, handsome enough. Nobody's ever going to love
 me because I'm not good enough. My parents don't love me. My friends don't love me. Whatever the lies
 are. I'm not qualified for the job I'm in. Somebody's going to find out that I'm a fraud.
 Whatever the lies are that we tell ourselves. That is the number one as far as I'm concerned,
 as far as what we see in next level of life. Even from folks that are in incredibly abusive relationships,
 even the contribution of the abuser still comes in second to the negativity inside the person's own
 brain. The things that that person keeps telling themselves. Now, a whole lot of the contribution
 from the abuser has been saying you're not good enough. You're never going to be good enough. You're
 terrible. You're horrible person. So that's absolutely massive. But what tends to control us,
 is when we are lying to ourselves and believing it. So I'm going to say that's number one.
 Number two is definitely going to be the influence of others. If we are surrounding ourselves with unhealthy
 people, think about this for a second. Folks, no matter how many times, I help people to see that they
 have not everybody, but definitely negative influences in their lives. Instead of putting in healthy
 boundaries, many times those folks will continue the relationship believing that it'll somehow
 fix itself. It'll somehow write itself. Instead of putting healthy boundaries in place and saying,
 I can't have your influence in my life right now. I can't handle that. That negativity is driving
 me to a bad place. Listen, you may have heard me say this, but I literally have only watched the news
 a handful of times since the Bush Gore election. Why? Why do I not watch the news? Well,
 first off, it's really not news. It's a bunch of crap and a bunch of lies. But I would wake up,
 put on the news channel and get mad driving to work. Right? I'd be getting ready in the morning
 out of the news on the background and then I'd find myself in my car upset. And I'd just sit to my
 self-added dude. That's influencing your attitude. That's changing the way you feel. Right?
 And God forbid, I got to work and somebody else was upset about what was on the news because then it gave
 us the opportunity to go, well, let's talk about it. No, we don't need to sit here and rip that
 apart. We got stuff to do. We have lives to change. But all the way back then, I don't know what year that was,
 early 2000s, mid 2000s, when was that? I don't know. Anyways, but I remember stopping watching the news
 back then. I had to turn off. And I have not watched the news except for a handful of emergency
 situations where I felt like I needed to get some information. Now, some people think that's crazy. Some
 people think how in the world do you know what's going on in the world? Oh, I have plenty of information
 on what's going on in the world. But I also have an idea that if I continue to pour that crap into me
 that it's going to change my emotional fortitude, it's going to change my attitude. So I changed that
 influence. I also have changed the influence on people that are in my inner circle. For years, I have had
 healthy people in my inner circle, not perfect people, not even remotely close, but healthy.
 And I've had folks that are friends, acquaintances that I used to consider stronger influences that
 I had to actually not spend as much time with or not let into my inner circle. And let them be folks
 that maybe I'm helping them or guiding them, but I couldn't allow them to have the influence on me.
 Why? Because their choices in life were affecting the way that I think. They're decisions to do
 things that I felt were wrong and not good enough or maybe even morally incorrect,
 were things that I couldn't have around me. And the worst thing is when you are hanging around
 folks that are doing stuff like that, how do they tend to respond? They tend to try and get you to
 agree that what they're doing is okay. Folks, you have to watch the influences that you have in your
 life. You have to make sure that sometimes you just got to flat cut them out. Right? If they are
 negative and you are feeling out of control, you're feeling like you don't have the emotional fortitude.
 Right? If you have somebody who's constantly pouring negativity into you, if you have somebody who's
 constantly gilting you, if you have somebody who's constantly a victim in their lives and pouring all
 their victimhood out onto you, then you might want to put some healthy boundaries in place.
 I think you should, but it's up to you. Again, just a suggestion. Then the next negative
 contributor actually has a ton of stuff behind it. And that is their reinforcement of
 things like social media or any debilitating habits of bad diet or no exercise or not pouring,
 not reading quality, healthy information, not spending time and God's word, not growing and not
 spending time and prayer. There's a whole lot of stuff around us that's constantly telling us
 how we are victims. Right? We see it through social media all the time. We see it through the news
 media all the time. We see how we deserve a break today by going and needing crappy food because
 has been such a tough day. So we should destroy our bodies in the process. We decide that instead of going
 out and exercising and spending time doing physical work, we will sit on the couch and play video
 games, not on whatever. Whatever those things are, right? Are the very things that keep you from
 healthy stuff, healthy decisions? Then that's just reinforcing your lack of emotional fortitude.
 Right? It's another negative contributor to you in your life. So what are positive contributors? Well,
 we're going to talk about those when we come back right out to this.
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue
 when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having a lack of
 high quality communication. To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life,
 it all starts with having great communication. The best way to get that communication is to
 understand your personality style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're
 spending the most time with. Whether it be at work, whether it be at home. The best way to do that
 is to go to Chrissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your
 team to day. Get it for your family members. Today, as you go through that profile, you will begin to see
 the greatest ways to communicate. Go to Chrissacrittle.com/store today.
 So what are positive contributors in our lives?
 Well, if the number one is the lies we tell ourselves, what would be the number one positive contributor?
 Hearing, acknowledging, recognizing, continuously repeating to yourself, the truth. What is the truth?
 Well, one of the number one lies that people tell themselves is, I'm not good enough.
 Well, the question is, not good enough for who? Who are you not good enough?
 What did you learn that? What did you learn that you're not worthy?
 What did you learn that you don't have as much worth as what you think you should or what somebody
 tells you? Where did you convince yourself that you're not good enough?
 If you take a look and for those of us that are believers and if you're not a believer,
 then I think you should dig into guns or find out what is he say you're worth is.
 Now, for most Christians, if you ask them what their worth is, they would say being a child of God
 and then when you ask them to explain that, they don't really have an answer.
 Here's what I want you to know and I can't get into everything, but what does God say your worth is?
 He says that from the beginning, from the time that he created us,
 that he has been working to make sure that we are reconciled with him,
 that he has been pursuing our hearts from the very beginning, that he has put things in place
 to take care of us to make sure that we can spend eternity with him, that he loves us so much, that
 he is the loving father who blesses us when we're obedient and he spanks our backside when we're not.
 Yep, God gives consequences.
 Don't listen to those people who tells you that God doesn't give punishments.
 That is a lie. It's anti-biblical. It's not what God says. God disagrees with that theology.
 God's very clear. If you're disobedient, I'm going to bring you punishments. If you're obedient,
 I'm going to bring you blessings. If that is something that you can't handle, well, then I'm going to say that
 you don't understand God. For those of you that are like, "Oh, I would never do that to my child."
 I praise God that I had a mom who was strict. We didn't have the opportunity. My mom didn't count
 down or count up, whatever. One, two, two and a half, two and three, four, three. Now you're
 really in trouble, Mr. That didn't happen. My mom said, "No, that was it." She said, "Yes."
 Great. You knew the answer. We didn't get this ridiculous week. I'm going to let you rule me as an adult.
 Responses. It was very clear if we chose bad things. We got consequences. Wasn't that difficult?
 It was pretty easy. I happened to have been the good kid in this picture. Sorry Mario. I happened to have
 been the good one. But here's what I knew. I knew the truth. That if I chose stupid,
 I got stupid. If I chose disobedience and rebellion, I got consequence or consequences.
 This is what I knew. This is what I understood growing up. I guess what? Guess where that comes from.
 A loving father. A loving father who wants us to recognize that he is a loving father,
 and that he has a phenomenal way for us to follow. But we have to discover his truth, not our truth.
 Not the truth of those that are pouring honey in our ears. Not trying to find somebody who's going
 to tell us the things that we want to hear. We need to find out what the king of the universe says is truth.
 We had a great Bible study this morning where we were talking through when Jesus is questioning
 the Pharisees about who they say the Messiah is and who they say the Messiah is is the descendant of David.
 So then he responds to the Pharisees with more than why did King David refer to him as Lord as God?
 And he's referring to Psalm 110 one. And if you look at him in the Hebrew, you can actually see what
 King David was saying. It was truth. What was Jesus saying to the Pharisees? The Messiah is not
 just a human being. He's more than that. He's God. That's truth. But what were people hearing from those
 Pharisees at the time? A different quote unquote truth, which if it's not truth, what is it? It's a lie.
 So folks, you've got to dig in and find out the more you discover God's truth in your life, the more you
 discover your worth to him. Guess what you're going to find out. His love, his blessings, his punishments
 for bad choices. You're going to find out all of that. Another positive contributor is people around us who
 speak the truth. There's nothing like when somebody comes to somebody who does what I do and says hit me
 with the truth. What is the truth? Help me with this. I know it's going to hurt. I know I might not like
 looking at myself and seeing some of the bad decisions I'm making. But I'm done. I want to change things.
 I want life to be better. Great. Let's down and talk about it and put a plan together.
 Having people around you who speak truth is profoundly positive. It is so incredibly needed
 if you're going to strengthen your own emotional fortitude. Having strong truthful people around you,
 healthy people helps you to make better decisions for your emotions with your emotions. Another thing
 is as a positive contributor, cut out the noise and the clutter for the love, get off of that social
 media. Get off of that crap. If you're spending time scrolling through stuff and you find that after 10
 15 30 minutes, get it out of your life. Get it off your phones. Get it out of your way. Do things
 to remove it. Do things to cut the clutter. If you're spending time with negative people, cut it out.
 If you're spending time listening to negative news shows, cut it out. If you're spending time on
 playing video games that's just destroying your mind and not allowing you to focus on more important things,
 cut it out. Whatever the thing is that is noise and clutter in your life that's keeping you from
 strengthening yourself emotionally from making better decisions. Get rid of it. Cut it out.
 You will find people who are incredibly productive and happy. I'm not talking about overwork. I'm not talking
 about overtaxed. I'm not talking about people that are overwhelmed, but people who are happy and very
 productive have cut out all the crap that keeps affecting their time. Get it out. Another positive
 contributor is healthy and consistent routines. Now the first part of that is the most important part.
 It has to be healthy. I know people who sit down and do routines of things of putting bad
 theology in their head or bad philosophy in their head and they sit down and believe that it is just
 powerful and they wonder why when they live out that philosophy things suck. But they're consistently
 putting that philosophy in. So it seems like it's a healthy routine, but it's actually not.
 You've got to find the routine that helps you. You have to be reading things that are truthful
 and actually helpful. If you're going to exercise, you need to have a great exercise routine that doesn't
 cause you to get hurt because you go out of too fast. That isn't holding you back because you're not doing
 enough. If you're going to change the way you eat, don't go on a diet. That's a waste of time.
 What is the life change by getting the crappy stuff out of your life and putting the healthy things in your life?
 So whatever the routine is, if you sit down and when your routine is spending quality time with a friend
 every week and yet that time with that friend is that friend railing on all the horrible things
 that are happening in the world and in their lives and negative, negative, negative, that's not a healthy
 and consistent routine. It's an unhealthy and consistent routine. So if you're going to make changes,
 you've got to put positive contributors in your life. Truth. People who speak truth.
 Getting rid of the noise in the clutter and healthy and consistent routines.
 Well folks, we are going to continue on with this in the next episode because there's just too much
 good information. So part two, we're actually going to go through recognizing your stability
 boosters. We're going to break down a bunch of these things and tell you why they're so important,
 what you can do about them to make sure that you are stabilizing your emotions, to make sure that you have
 emotional fortitude. So again, for the next level leadership live event, April 27 through 29,
 you should be here. You're going to see in three days how to dramatically transform your leadership.
 Now this is going to help you to have strategies and actionable methods to build a stronger,
 less stressful, more successful business. So right now, head on over to Chrissacrtle.com/nextlovelator
 ship, all one word to sign up and be among the first to know when registration is open and to say 40
 percent off your tickets. We're excited. We hope you're excited as well. Well, we cannot wait to see you as
 always take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]