 Boosting your emotional stability that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks. Before we get into today's episode last week, we open
 registration for the next level leadership live event and we're so excited to see those of you
 who have grabbed your tickets already. Now, if you've missed out on the big discount,
 have no fear right now extreme early bird pricing is available and saves you 30% off regular
 ticket pricing. So guys, I know that I'm hyping the heck out of this event on recent shows,
 but there's a reason for that. First, leaders have to always be growing themselves.
 Second, you need this specific information because it's the exact playbooks we've used
 to help leaders to get free from overwhelm and finally start leading their teams to greater success
 and bigger revenues and profits. This is going to be three days worth of phenomenal teaching
 with the heavy focus on giving you the major elements that the people in our coaching programs and
 mastermind groups are learning right now. They're the major elements of the huge transformations
 that have been helping the companies that we lead and teach. This is the stuff that we have been
 helping our clients do and understand for a long time. This is the stuff I've been doing for years
 and years and years. So this is going to be elements of our greatest ever content. The stuff that's
 really helping people get past some of the biggest struggles that they've had in business. Some of the
 areas that they're just banging their heads against the wall. Some of the revenue issues that they
 keep coming up against and the team issues that they keep coming up against. We're going to help you
 to tackle all of this. Now, before I continue, here's what you need to know. We just launched this
 bad boy and we are currently in extreme early bird. So head over to crystalicardo.com/nextleveledorship
 all one word and grab your tickets today. Okay, so folks, if you are joining us after having
 listened to last week's episode, then you know we've been talking about your emotional fortitude.
 You know, how do we strengthen that? How do we know where we are? The first two things we hit
 were one making sure that we actually recognize our current condition. So if we're going to understand
 what our emotional fortitude is, we have to first recognize what our current condition is. Self-awareness
 is powerful for us to know exactly what we're experiencing, what we're struggling with, what causes
 issues, what strengthens us, all that kind of fun stuff. The second thing is, and this is crazy
 powerful, we have to recognize our daily contributions, whether they are negative or they are positive.
 We have to recognize what is contributing to a lack of emotional fortitude or what is contributing
 to us, building that up. Today, what we're going to do is we're going to do a deeper dive into
 boosters. Things that will help you in strength and your emotional fortitude are not going to tell you.
 Some of the things that we're going to hit, that you've heard them from a 30,000 foot view from people all the
 time talking through, oh these smart things to do, but they never really get into why they're so
 incredibly important. And we're going to hit some of those things today. So we're going to hit some
 stuff that affects you emotionally. Even though a lot of these things are physical. So we're going
 to dive right into that when we come back right after this.
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue
 when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having a lack
 of high quality communication to make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life.
 It all starts with having great communication. The best way to get that communication is to
 understand your personality style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're
 spending the most time with, whether it be at work, whether it be at home. The best way to do that is
 to go to Chrissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your team
 to day. Get it for your family members. Today, as you go through that profile, you will begin to see
 the greatest ways to communicate. Go to Chrissacrittle.com/store today.
 Okay, so we are hitting five emotional stability boosters that you need to be tapping into for
 your health and understanding how they affect your positive way and in a negative way. And again,
 like I said, in the front bumper there, a lot of these you've heard before, but I won't explain
 some of these things in a deeper way of how they affect you. So let me warn you, while they seem simple,
 they're very powerful. And if you're honest, I think you're going to recognize how some of these things
 are affecting you in a positive or negative way. The first thing we are going to hit is food, eating well.
 Now, it amazes me. How many people now I have had, I've been working on my physical body for 20 years,
 20 plus years now, because I have had a lot of issues, one of those being high levels of lead.
 I've been working on getting lead out of my body for quite some time. People always ask, "What
 did you eat paint chips?" Because it's a great Chris Farley movie. No, I didn't eat paint chips,
 but I do believe if I go back to the mid 90s that I lived in a house that was over 100 years old,
 and I believe all of the pipes were lead. So every day I shower. Every day I made coffee with this water,
 every day I'm so so you cooked a lot of pasta in this water, and it was always kind of funky. This was
 before we really started getting into a lot of bottled waters or definitely before a lot of water filters,
 which again, how would we have known? I did not know. So I would not have looked for a filter that would
 have filtered out lead if I put a filter in there at all. I would have looked for one that was
 filtering out things like chlorine. So I've been working on this for a couple of decades of trying to heal
 my body. I've gone through a whole bunch of crap while along the way. I've seen how it's affected
 other areas of my body. So how it's affected my adrenals, my kidneys, my liver, my thyroid,
 all of those pieces. How it's affected my stomach, how when I would get sick, then what would the doctors
 do? They would have immediately put me on antibiotics, which would destroy the gut bacteria. All these things
 I've had to deal with for 20 years. I really started getting, I just kept feeling worse and worse and worse.
 And I started getting change when I started following more of a functional medicine style of looking
 to natural things to discover. What is the problem instead of pushing medicine into my body?
 I say all that to say, I've actually been researching what goes into your body for decades.
 This is something I've worked on for a very, very long time. And I'm still working on it. We still
 don't have all the lead out. It takes an incredibly long time and it's a big process. But I have
 discovered everything from what's happening in my gut, what's happening back to your eyes, what's
 happening in my liver, what's happening everywhere. Right? How is everything affecting me? I know which
 foods I can eat, which foods I can't eat. I know which foods affect my energy levels and drop my
 energy levels. I know which foods give me inflammation in a heartbeat. I know which foods can affect
 my sinuses and my digestion in a heartbeat. I understand this stuff because I've studied it for a long
 time. Why is all that important to you? Because it amazes me how many people do not recognize that the
 stuff they are putting in their body is absolutely causing them to be sick. How many folks do not
 recognize the inflammation that they are creating by putting crap sugars, bad processed foods,
 stuff with good bacteria just heated out of it. All kinds of junk that they put into their acids,
 fake sugars, all of this junk that they dump into their body and then don't realize that the food
 is the thing or a major thing that's having an effect on them. And then what do we do? We gain a
 bunch of weight, we're struggling with feeling sick and so we go on a diet, which that doesn't work
 either. So one of the things that we have to understand is is how food plays such an important role
 in our emotions. Now, one big piece of this. Even if you don't know it, you subconsciously know
 this. Sugar has the same effect on the pleasure centers in your brain as cocaine. Let me say that again.
 Sugar lights up the pleasure centers in your brain the same way that cocaine does. So one of the
 things you've probably noticed is when you don't feel good that you actually spend time shoving sugar
 into your body. There's a lot of folks. It's funny. People will come into next level of life knowing,
 hey, this is going to be an emotionally stressful day. This is going to be tough and so they'll bring
 sugar with them. They'll bring candies. They'll bring, you know, M&Ms. They'll bring, you know, candy bars,
 whatever or sodas. They'll bring heavy, heavily sugar sodas because they know that when they don't
 feel good, when they feel stressed out, when they feel negative, when they feel emotional, that if
 they will shove sugar inside of their bodies, that it'll a lot of those pleasure centers. And they
 feel good for a while. Well, massive problems with that. First thing is sugar is your worst enemy when it
 comes to the gut bacteria in your stomach. You are supposed to have no more than 20% bad bacteria
 in your stomach. Well, when you're dumping sugar in their guess what it's doing, it's feeding the
 daylights out of the bad bacteria and killing off the good bacteria. So the bad bacteria continues to grow
 and grow and grow and what is that cause? That's just of issues. The inability to process food well,
 the inability to digest food well. It cranks up inflammation inside of your body. It creates an
 environment that allows cancer to thrive. There's all kinds of horrid things that happen inside of your
 body when you dump sugar inside. Here's a surprising thing to a lot of folks. Go and take a look at the normal
 can of soda that actually has sugar, not the fake crap that's actually even worse than sugar.
 The aspertames and stuff. Go ahead and take a look at a can of soda. It usually has somewhere on 38 to 40 grams
 of sugar per can. 38 to 40. How many people drink multiple sodas in a day? A typical pack of sugar in the
 US and I know there we have a lot of people that are listening around the world. I don't know what you
 if you have sugar packets or how you get your sugar. But a typical packet of sugar in the US can
 say contains two grams of sugar. So what does that mean? That a typical can of soda that has 38 to 40 grams
 of sugar in it is actually 19 to 20 packets of sugar per can. Now if I stacked up 19 to 20 packets
 of sugar in front of you and said, just go ahead and put that in some water, start up and drink it
 down. What are the chances you're going to do that? Hopefully slim to none. And then people do that
 multiple times a day. Multiple cans of sodas or whatever. Or eating candy bars. Or eating even health bars
 that have tons of sugar in them. Or bad vitamins that have tons of sugar. When you look all around
 what you will discover is as you're dumping this toxic waste into your body, it's creating toxic
 city in your body. So let's take a look at other bad things. What about processed weeds or processed
 corns or genetically altered products? Only France has done an extensive study on GMOs and roundup.
 And here's what they did. They did a two year study on this and what they discovered and they did this
 in rats because they have the closest structure to human bodies, molecular structure or whatever it is.
 And what they discovered is is that after continuously feeding these rats, GMO products, especially
 with roundup in them, what happened is their body size doubled with tumors. Their body size
 doubled. They weighed twice the amount as the rats that didn't have the GMO in the Montanto,
 which is now bare the ground up in them. Twice the size with tumors. Now, why is it that we
 don't have a study like that being done in America? I can get off on that track like crazy.
 So here's what you have to ask yourself, if you're putting genetically altered foods into your body,
 if you're putting roundup, Montanto, the stuff they spray to kill the weeds into your body and it is
 absolutely destroying your body. It's making the environment heavily toxic and creating a phenomenal
 environment for cancer to grow, then you have to ask yourself, why? Why are you putting that crap in?
 What is it doing to you? How does that affect you? And we can go on and go on and go on.
 The foods that you're eating. If you're putting stuff into your body, tons of carbs,
 way more than your body can process, which means that your liver is not processing it correctly. It's
 turning it into sugar. If you are not processing all of this food well, then what does that mean for
 your emotional state? Well, if we're having to put things in to make us feel happy or at least feel good
 during stressful times, that means that we're not experiencing this stressful times. Not the way
 that we should, which means that instead of doing something like putting in healthy boundaries, or
 recognizing how toxic the situation is. Instead, we're getting yourself through it by putting crap in.
 If we are emotional eating, I used to be one of those folks back in the, again, early to mid 90s.
 If it was a tough day, I didn't do sugar. I would do a ballopasta. Good Sicilian. I need a
 ballopasta feel all better about myself because what does that turn into? It turns into sugar
 later on. If we're putting crap in because we're emotionally eating, then it's affecting our
 emotional fortitude. It's keeping us from experiencing what we should be experiencing and allowing ourselves
 to put healthy decisions into place. If we're putting a bunch of sugar, a bunch of processed foods,
 a bunch of GMOs, a bunch of round-up glyphosate in our body, and it's destroying our gut. It's
 destroying our digestive system. It's destroying the way that our liver responds, our genios respond,
 our kidneys respond, our thyroid responds, and then guess what? It's also creating heavy amounts of inflammation.
 Well, what is directly tied to inflammation? Depression. Yep. You can go out and discover.
 If you do enough research on it, you can find a ton of studies. They're finally releasing a ton of
 studies that people have known for a long time. That depression is linked to inflammation. Whenever you find
 depression, you find inflammation. It is very rare to actually find depression that doesn't
 have inflammation in the body, like extremely rare. It's so uncommon, right? So what do we know?
 If we're eating unhealthy diets and we're creating inflammation and we're destroying our gut,
 and and and and and, what is it leading to? A lack of emotional fortitude. If we are depressed,
 how in the world are we going to be able to emotionally stand up to the situations that we need to
 make it through the situations that we need to stay productive during these situations.
 Make right decisions. We don't. What do we do? Instead, we struggle. We become depressed. We become
 victims. We continue to shovel more crap into our bodies and it affects us horribly.
 Christmas is such a positive episode. Listen, I've had to learn these things over and over again.
 My wife has had to learn these things over and over again. The reason you know the folks that come
 here for next level life or for a strap plan or retreats with our next level mastermind folks,
 they get healthy food for a reason. We don't want to put the crap on our bodies. Am I saying that I
 never ever put anything bad at no? Once in a great while I'll travel and I'll eat something that
 is not the best but I understand the consequence. It's just something I don't choose to do on a daily
 basis. Instead, I choose to put healthier stuff in my body. Number two, man, this I am a, what is it? A
 habitual offender? Is that the term? I struggle. I suck. That's what I was going to say. I was
 going to put struggle and suck together. I struggle. There we go. Struggle. I suck at this. Number two is
 sleep. Folks, I am like, I am 51 years old and my wife says that I am like a little baby who will not
 just go to bed that I will fight it and fight it and fight it. And why? Because there's so much
 that we do in a day and so much creativity that's used and so much effort that's used in a day that
 when I get to night time, I don't want to go to bed. Why? Because that means that when I wake up,
 we start all over again. I want a little bit of time. Just let me relax. My wife calls it mowing.
 I don't still don't understand what the world that means or where it actually came from. But I want
 some relaxation time. I want to be able to chill for a little bit. I want my brain to slow down.
 And what I have discovered is and she has so proven this to me so well that if I will go to bed earlier,
 because I get it pretty early. I get it about 5, 5, 30. I'm up on awake. If I will go to bed
 earlier, then I will actually get a much better sleep score, a restful night. And she's proven it to
 me over and over and over again. That if I will actually get in bed sometimes even 30 minutes or even an
 hour earlier, then I have a much better night of sleep. What happens? Almost every single time I wake
 up. I've lost weight. I feel better. I have more energy that day. Obviously, if I do good healthy
 routines after I wake up, I have more energy. I can think more clearly. There's all kinds of
 amazing things that happen if I will just get my butt to bed. But I remember in my early years. I
 used to go to bed at a decent time. But I remember people talking about, "Oh, you don't need them
 much sleep." You actually, you know, your body will do well on 4 to 6 hours. Let me just call that
 bowl. That is incorrect. Now, I'm not saying that this is every single person. Are there some
 people that can operate on 6 hours of sleep? Everybody can operate on 6 hours of sleep? But can you do
 better if you get eight? Heck yeah. Absolutely. Now, do I make it to eight rarely? But if I can get
 a 7 or 7 and a half in, you know, because sometimes I'll still wake up earlier. I just snap away sometimes.
 But sometimes I make it through. Sometimes I get 8 and a half hours. It's just stunning. Right?
 When I do, I do so much better. So can I operate on 6 hours? Sure. There's many times depending
 upon what health regimen we are working on to try and get the lead out of my body. I only get 4 hours.
 I wake up. I'm awake. That's it. I can't get back to sleep. I struggle. And man, it sucks. I'm
 telling you. It doesn't work really well for me. What am I saying? Get your butt to bed. But Chris,
 we only have so much time. Well, then make adjustments. Do things to change how you get quality,
 sleep by the way. While my wife is pointing out that I am like a little baby. And I will fight
 like crazy. I have had to help my wife understand that an incredibly loud train like noisy fan
 actually base your sleep. Some of you sleep with these incredibly loud fans or loud noises or your
 TVs on or whatever. And what you discover is that's actually affecting your deep sleep.
 It's affecting your REM. It's not allowing you to get fully into great sleep. But some people
 are like, well, I can't get the sleep unless I have a noise. Well, slowly start to back that down.
 And what you will discover is you get greater quality sleep. Now, you can test this for yourself. But
 if you're going to do it, give yourself a legitimate test. Don't try and prove it to make it work
 so that you can keep your loud train sized noise in your bedroom. So if you are getting more sleep,
 more quality sleep. Oh, by the way, there are things you can do to make your sleep even more quality.
 Things like not drinking alcohol before bed, not eating sugars before bed. Sometimes,
 for me, what I have discovered is there's two things that do actually help me get deeper sleep.
 When I feel like I need them. One of those is a quality organic cottage cheese because it's got a
 protein casing protein. Well, actually, last longer. I actually do pretty darn well and do pretty,
 I get some pretty decent deep sleep. And thank you, Jill Borman. That's helped me out with is
 tart cherry. Now, tart cherry does have sugar in it. And I know that sounds contradicting.
 But here's it. It has got, I don't know if it's the polyphenols or what it is specifically in tart cherry.
 But there's some elements of tart cherry that actually help you get a more
 restful night asleep. So this is a situation where that whatever else is in tart cherry actually
 overrides the sugar and helps you to get a deeper sleep. So the more quality sleep that you get,
 the stronger you feel the next day. The better your mood is. The better you make decisions. You're
 not struggling as much. You can think more clearly. And when you have poor or inadequate sleep,
 it can cause irritability. It can cause stress. It can cause you to not feel good, not feel happy,
 not feel like you're ready to face the day. So when we see chronic insomnia, then what we see is the
 risk of people developing mood disorders such as anxiety or depression. Why? What happens when you get
 into deep sleep and when you get into REM? Those processes and even believe they're not
 light sleep has a restorative process. The sleep levels actually are working on repairing different
 parts of your body, whether it's your mind, your physical body, whatever it is. So guess what? When you are
 not getting quality sleep, you can build up a whole lot of inflammation. You can create a whole lot of
 anxiety and depression. So sleep is super duper important to making sure that you are able to handle
 things better in an emotional situation that you have a greater emotional fortitude. Number three.
 Exercise, but exercise better. Now, once again, I told you some of these things sound simple,
 but here's the important thing that you have to understand. Our exercise or the lack there of it
 can absolutely be the bottleneck to our well-being. Physical activity. I don't care if you're just
 getting your butt outside and walking multiple times a day. Whatever it is, physical activity. Now,
 over doing this does the exact opposite over doing it can cause pain and inflammation, all kinds of issues.
 So we're talking about better exercise. Physical activity can greatly enhance our emotional well-being.
 What do we know? So we know that when we exercise, we kick in the happy hormones. Dopamine,
 which tends to be the most widely known, serotonin, which is super important and also something
 that we create while we're sleeping as well and is important for our sleep. And endorphins, these are things
 that help us to feel better. To feel better about ourselves as we exercise, what's one of the
 things we kick out of our body? Yep, you guessed it. Inflammation. So, even if we go for a brisk walk,
 it increases our mental alertness. Even if we just go for a decent walk, then what we're helping ourselves
 to do is have a more positive mood and it's being done naturally. We are actually boosting
 our energy, our mood naturally. We're not putting in crap in there. We're not putting in stuff
 that's going to cause us to be depressed. Instead, we're going to be doing things that are
 creating the hormones that help us to feel better, stronger, more positive and more capable. When you
 are regularly physically active, then it increases the way you feel about yourself in a positive way
 and it reduces stress and anxiety. So, I'm not saying you got to go out there and pump a thousand
 pounds away. What I'm saying is you got to do something. You got to get out there. You got to make things happen,
 right? Even if it starts with just walking, right? Get out and walk on a regular basis. Don't do
 like so many people do. They go out there and try and lift a whole bunch away. Then they end up
 hurting themselves. Then they choose not to go back and exercise. What their answer is always,
 "Oh, I tried that, but it didn't work for me." No, don't overdo it. This isn't a race.
 This is you getting the best workout you can, even if that means just going for a press walk.
 All right, when we come back, the other two boosters to your emotional stability.
 Freedom, it's so powerful. I don't rejuvenate and almost renewed. I just felt so
 welcome and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment. So, I was very comfortable
 there. I had a really big impact on me. It's going to be worth it. It's going to be hard, but it's going to be
 even better on the other side. For me, it was just a very refreshing and I'm going to say life
 giving to me and really was. You know, I would go to the next level of life again and probably again
 and probably again because it's so powerful. I want you to ask yourself a question,
 could you hear the sense of hope and freedom and their voices just then? I want you to
 know that could be you. Look, it's easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns,
 and unhealthy relationships. It's going to take some work, but yes, there is hope for you.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of self-worthiness
 and freedom that they have or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like for you,
 then head on over to Chrissacordo.com/nextlevellife.
 [Music]
 Okay, looking at number four. The fourth thing that you can do to boost your emotional stability
 is to meditate daily. Now, I know, I know. The word meditate for me still is one of those
 funky words. We're not talking about going and doing any weird stuff, right?
 What we are talking about is just the definition of meditating, which is focusing your mind for a period
 of time. It could be in silence or it could be in reciting passages. We love to recite the
 passages of the Old Testament, the book of Psalms. It's taking good, it can be in silence. It could
 be just sitting and not focusing on things and allowing your brain to just be still or it could be putting things
 in that quality like scripture passages. Psalms is a great book to read and focus on.
 So meditation, again, I even hate saying the word because it's got such a bad connotation from
 weird, crazy spiritual stuff from back in the day. It can give you a sense of peace. It can give you a
 calming response. It can cause you to feel really balanced, right? It can really help you with your
 emotional well-being all over. And also, when you spend time, there's plenty of research out there
 that shows that when you spend time in meditation, it can actually help you physically. Your body
 responds better. You reduce stress, right? And we're not talking about you got to go spend all day long,
 chanting things, spend some time, right? Spend some time just clearing your brain or putting good
 quality stuff in or again, something that my wife suggested to me a year ago, was to do what's called a
 brain dump. For a lot of you, now for me, my brain dump doesn't work the same way as a lot of
 aesthetic people does. A lot of folks can get up, grab a pencil on a paper and write down the stuff that's in your
 brain. Get it out. Get it out right away, right? For me, I like to go into prayer time. That helps me a lot.
 But for a lot of folks at least get it out of your brain, right? There's things to talk about with
 God, talk about them. If there's things you just got to write it down, it doesn't matter what it is.
 I know there have been times my wife has just written down, I have nothing in my mind. I can't
 think of anything and it has helped her to get her brain and a better spot for that day. So for me, I like to
 pray. I like to spend time. I love spending time and Bible study every single morning. That for me is a
 big piece of getting my mind straight. But if all you're doing is spending time being quiet.
 Or if all you're doing is just spending time reading specific scriptures out of something like the
 book of Psalms and do whatever you want to spend that time because it helps you to get rid of a lot of
 stress and anxiety in your life. One of the things that they have discovered is that people who actually
 spend quality time meditating have a better response to medical conditions. So powerful stuff. Number five,
 structure, your life. Now, structure. This is a great barrier against chaos. Some folks say that
 they thrive in chaos. Some folks don't have a problem with chaos. Well, here's what I'm going to tell you.
 I handle stress pretty darn well. My wife has told me and other people have told me that they don't
 really see me stress out and I think that's hilarious because I'm like, I stress all the time. I experience
 stress and they're like, well, you deal with it well. And that's because I truly follow the things that we teach.
 Right, I put healthy things in place. I put healthy boundaries in place. But an amazing thing and this is
 something I can struggle with as well, not greatly, but from time to time. If I don't have
 structure in what's happening, then I can feel a little anxiety, I can feel a little out of control.
 Because I know that when I do have structure in my life, when I get things organized, when I
 know exactly what I'm going after and the things that we're focusing on and the things we're trying to
 accomplish and all the things that I'm not doing. So one of the things that I do, I think really well is
 if I can't get it done, if we can't do it with excellence, we just don't do it. I'll push to the side,
 you know, I can't tell you how many money making schemes I've passed on that people like you've got to do this.
 I'm like, nope, we're busy with what we've got to do and what we're doing is more important. So if I can't do that with
 with excellence, I'm just not doing it, right? And that allows me to structure the rest of my time focusing on
 what's the most important stuff. What is most important in Chris LaCurtis life? Well, if you don't know
 by now, God, God is the most important thing in my life and I have to structure my life around him, right?
 If I'm doing it correctly, I'm structuring my life for him, including him, spending time with him,
 spending time in his word, spending time helping other people to get to know him, right? All those things.
 When I do that, it gives me greater clarity. It gives me greater vision and destination of
 where I'm heading with what I'm doing, right? And it allows me to kick a whole bunch of stuff out. So
 if you're going to structure your life, you have to start with the, what's important? What are the
 things that are most important? And what are the things I'm going to say no to? You've heard the saying
 over and over again. Every time you say yes to one thing, you're saying no to something else.
 Right? So start saying no to a lot of things. Start getting a bunch of crap out of your life that
 doesn't belong there. By the way, parents quit making your kids do 47 sports and theater and all types
 of activities in a week. You're the one who wants them to do all that stuff. Right? What are you
 driving them to do? That if their life isn't full of activities, they don't have worth.
 Come on, where's the quality family time? Where's the time of being able to not have something to
 do and using their imagination? Where's the time of getting out into nature and enjoying walks and
 hikes? Where's all of that? Instead, what do we do? Throw them in a car, run them all over the place,
 shove fast food in their bodies and wonder why when they grow up, they can't make good quality decisions.
 No, that's not the only reason why people can't make quality decisions. But I think you get the
 point that I'm making. That's a very unhealthy structure of life. A running around and cramming every
 waking moment with an activity for your kids. Listen, you do not have to do that and you shouldn't
 feel guilty by people who tell you that you have to do that. Right? Structure quality time with them.
 Time with you, the family, time with God, time with doing healthy activities and time with things like
 sports or theaters or whatever drama or whatever it is that they do, gymnastics or whatever,
 it's okay to have passions and things. But where's their time to rest? Where's their time to slow down
 and stop? Where's their time to not be creative? So structure that time in there. Here,
 one of the things that we teach all the time is how to close out your day. We use a tool around here,
 called Asana, which I would always tell people it's a project management tool. And what we teach our
 leaders and business owners and team members is to close your day out, to make sure that when you get to
 the end of your day, even if you're going to continue working, let's say I'm probably planning on working
 until 7 o'clock tonight, but it's, you know, 4 o'clock 30. I want to brain dump all the things that I've
 not gotten done yet. Hopefully I've gone through and cleared a bunch of stuff out of my to-do list,
 but I want to put all the things down that need to get done tomorrow and then I want to prioritize the
 daylight that of them. What's most important? What am I going to hit? One of my going to hit it
 because this gives me the ability to actually structure day after day after day with what's most important.
 And then when I do that, I become incredibly more productive. There are research studies that show
 that people can gain two hours back in a day by structuring this and those studies actually point to
 you structuring your day at the beginning of the day. We tell people do it at the end of the day. Why?
 Because it's all that stuff is still fresh in your brain. Get it out. Don't take it home and then have to
 pick up your phone like I used to do and during dinner and send yourself emails. The things you got to do
 the next day. Pranked up, get it all out. That way you can go home and spend time with your family.
 That way you can go home and be clear without having to think through a whole bunch of work stuff.
 So another great thing you can do is for structuring your life. Get rid of junk. There is a whole bunch
 of junk that is just holding your brain hostage. One of the things I did years ago, the very first time I
 came in on the weekend and cleared out my whole entire office. Some of you've probably heard that story
 before. But I cleared everything out through the way that things that were trash organized,
 things that needed to be organized, delegated, things that needed to be delegated. When I came in on Monday, my brain was
 so clear it was amazing. And I have never allowed myself to get back to that place. That's been 20
 years. It's been a long time. And I do not allow myself to get back to that place. Why? Because I realized
 how it helped me immediately. Like my brain operated better by getting rid of stuff that was just junk.
 Right? I do the same thing in my home. I get rid of things that I'm not using. I don't
 I don't hoard a bunch of junk. And I want to get rid of stuff that I'm like, hey, somebody else can
 use this. I need to get rid of this thing. Another thing you need to do is get rid of notifications,
 things that are constantly telling you that there's something super urgent. Right? I, you know,
 with my team, I tell them, get rid of them, the email notifications that pop up on your screen, the text
 notifications, all these things that keep telling you there's something urgent. Because what happens is
 is that this thing says, come pay attention to me. You click on it. You stopped doing the thing that
 you're doing. And what do you notice? It's actually not urgent. I mean, it's actually not important.
 It's urgent because it says, hey, pay attention to me. But when you get to it, you're like,
 that thing totally could have waited for another couple of hours. That wasn't that important.
 So get rid of things that are distracting your time and telling you that their urgent, you got to pay attention to them.
 Another thing is, and we talked about this a little bit earlier, but get rid of unwanted noise.
 Actually, we talked, another thing is, and we talked about this in the last episode, get rid of unwanted noise.
 Get rid of the stuff that is garnering your attention that is just crap.
 If the social media that you are following is not helpful, it's not beneficial. It's not edifying,
 get rid of it. If you find yourself scrolling through tons of social media pictures after
 picture after picture or quote, quote, or whatever the crap it is. And you look up and you've lost
 parts of your day. And there's been nothing beneficial. Get rid of it. If the unwanted noise is bad,
 horrible TV or movies or music or whatever, people get rid of it, get rid of the unwanted noise.
 Get rid of the stuff that is not helping you. So these are things that you can do to boost
 your emotional stability. They can help you to feel grounded, they could help you to feel better
 equipped to handle the struggles that you're experiencing and maybe you're not experiencing a lot of
 struggles right now, but you know what it's like when you go through them. They can help you to face your
 day stronger, they can help you to just feel better. But most importantly, if you don't have a relationship
 with the one who made you, then you're still building your life on shifting sand. No matter how strong
 the house, no matter how strong the house is when the storm comes, it's still going to fall down.
 So here's what I want you to do. Let me invite you to speak to your father in heaven,
 ask for his help, lean on him, expect him to answer one way or another. Whenever you call out to him,
 Jeremiah 333 says, and this is from the message version, this is God's message, the God who made earth
 made it livable and lasting known everywhere as God, call to me and I will answer you. I'll tell you
 marvelous and wondrous things that you could never figure out on your own. So folks, here's what I want
 you to do. Let him be your strength. Let him be your rock. Let him be your stability.
 All the things that I've told you to do are things that you're doing in your strength and they will help.
 But I can tell you, I don't face a single day without spending time with my God.
 I don't spend a single day without talking to him, without focusing on him, without meditating on him.
 Not one. Why? Because I have discovered it changes how I face every single day.
 It gives me strength. He gives me strength. He gives me abilities. So let him be your strength.
 Let him be your rock. Let him be your stability. Well folks, hopefully this has helped you today.
 Hopefully this has helped you to create a greater emotional fortitude. Hopefully this has helped you to
 handle situations better. Hopefully this has helped you to make better decisions on how you face
 every aspect of your life, whether it's eating, whether it's sleeping, exercising, meditating or creating
 structure. What we want you to do as always is take all of this information, change your leadership,
 change your business, and change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]