 On today's episode, we're discussing navigating the various challenges of leading remote teams and how to lead them to success.
 That's coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCordo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks, I hope you are having a fabulous day. I am obviously not Chris LaCordo.
 This is Joel Forner, I'm our VP of Leadership Development Sales and Marketing and every now and then,
 when Chris says away, I sneak in and kind of hijacked the show for it. But hijacked the show for it,
 episode, hopefully it all comes out super well. And joining me on the show today is Brian Alex, many of you all who listened to the show for a long time.
 Know the Sultry Tones, Brian's of how we can put of your voice.
 I doubt I've ever been described as Sultry in the interview context, but now you have been.
 Both Sultry Tones have Brian Alex. Joining us all the way from Europe, which is just amazing.
 I mean how amazing is that. Hi, modern technology here we are. We are a global company now.
 And incredible. The feet we're achieving. Well, welcome to the show, Brian.
 Today we are going to dive deep into the subject of remote team members, how to lead them, how to lead people remotely.
 And how to overcome some of the challenges faced by leaders and team members alike.
 So we're getting into this today because not only is this the direction that the world is moving with the world.
 This is also where even our team has been moving as well. Interestingly enough, Brian, I remember we were having a discussion
 not long ago. And we actually were talking about how a lot of our company, like it was you and Chris helped you know, got this thing going.
 And then I came on remotely and it never really dawned on me until recently that we even have roots of remote working in this company.
 You're trying to go to work. Yeah, because I think I think of us. And now I'm in the office every day. And so many of you have so much of my team.
 And everyone else is gone.
 It's just really irony is amazing. So this is where things are going guys. Many of you all are no doubt experiencing this.
 You've probably gone this way. The pandemic forced this upon many of you all. And I know for so many of our business coaching clients.
 The pandemic forced the issue. It forced with that a lot of fear and trepidation and having to make decisions and navigate
 things and uncertainty that they never have before. And so because this has become such an enormous topic
 and something that you were probably facing as a leader ever-mote people or maybe you are you have a mixed team of some people or
 remote, some in the office. We really wanted to get into this and share some keys and share some perspective with you today
 to help arm you and equip you to be a leader of remote team members. So Brian, how about we dive into this?
 Yeah, I mean, just thinking about my own experience, I came off of the mission field in 2019 before there was a pandemic
 and got back on the team. I don't know if that's back on the wagon or off the wet how you describe that.
 But I got back in the office and I had been doing some remote work came back to the HQ in Nashville.
 And we experienced a lot of change 2019 moving into 2020 and the pandemic and all of that.
 And there was just shift after shift after shift and I imagine that a lot of our business leaders, business owners are feeling that same kind of
 you know, the ground is always moving underneath us. And we've experienced that. We've had, you know, some team members change and then
 several members, we brought on a remote worker from South America and then me coming back to the field and now another team member going remote.
 There are so many variables that change when you have remote team members that you're just not accustomed to
 handling. And so I think that's what makes this such a relevant topic because we're not alone in that.
 I mean, you know, just looking at some recent statistics about remote workers, this is not just a, it's not just a trend.
 More than half of the companies in the US, 56% of those companies now allow remote working more than half. That's amazing.
 And there are even a growing number of companies worldwide, more than 15% are already 100% remote.
 So I think this is where we're going. And as we're as we're moving that direction, I want to help our leaders get some some stability in their thinking and their processes and how to lead and guide these remote team members.
 And maybe even see some things from the team members point of view as we get to the end of this.
 Yeah, absolutely absolutely. So some of those other stats that you were just sharing, how about I go ahead and just read off some of those because
 they're extremely revealing. So in addition, so you said, over 15% of companies in the world are 100% remote. That's a lot. So there's no doubt, this isn't a trend.
 This isn't one of those. Oh, here comes the internet thing and I don't know if that's your link in the comments.
 It's this is here to stay and it's only going to we're only going to continue to see more of this.
 44% of companies don't allow remote work. So 56% of companies do allow it. Better work life balance is the main reason why people choose to work remotely.
 77% of remote workers say they're more productive when working from home. That's a huge one.
 The average annual income of remote workers is $4,000 higher than that of other workers.
 85% of managers believe that having teams with remote workers will become the new norm. 74% of workers say that having the option to work remotely would make them less likely to leave a company.
 Huge. And then we've got this last stat that I think we're going to dive into a little deeper.
 The three biggest challenges associated with remote work are unplugging after work 22% say that loneliness 19% and then communication and collaboration 17% again those are the top three challenges that most remote workers deal with.
 So when we come back we're going to get into the nitty gritty of leading others remotely and uncovering some of the top problems that meters face.
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here. I'm the vice president of leadership development on Chris esteem and I oversee our next level mastermind business coaching program.
 Most business owners and leaders like a clear path to succeed in business. The question whether the making the right decisions if they're focusing on the right things to really grow their business.
 If this is you, you need a coach in your life. Coach is helping make better decisions navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively and grow your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue and an average of 138% increase in net profit and regained hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3.5 years simply because of the results they get. So if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting, then visit Chrisacordo.com/mastermind again.
 Chrisacordo.com/mastermind today.
 And we're back. So Joel, we've been working together remotely for a few months now and yeah how's that been going? Well this is probably wrong in context to ask you don't answer that.
 I'm not a sponsor.
 I will share. I will share.
 John, put them in pause. My zoom over here. You just share with everyone.
 So seriously and all joking aside, I believe it's been going very well.
 We've been working together again remotely for months now and now that you're in Sicily.
 So for me from the leader perspective, it's been very smooth because I'm used to leading remotely. Most of my team members are already remote.
 Aaron is in cross-filtranity, one is in California.
 Javiera is in Nicaragua. We've now got Cassie, Katie's about to go remote. This isn't new for us and for me especially.
 I lead so many remote people. We were like, well, let's just have Joel come on and let's unpack it from his leadership. VP perspective on what it's like to lead remote teams. So this has been going very well.
 I believe some core reasons for that are because of there's so many. One is that it's all about the people you have on your team.
 A lot of fears that leaders have are people going to be productive. Are they going to take advantage? Are they going to sit at home and not work? Are they going to hide things from me?
 If you're thinking that kind of stuff and those are your worries, you don't know your team member well enough and leave for some reason have got to figure out what have we done or not done well and are recruiting, hiring, onboarding and then culture and doctoration of team members.
 We shouldn't even be thinking that stuff. I don't think any negative thoughts about anyone who works remote because I know you. I know Aaron. I know, hobby.
 But that started in back well before you just put someone in a seat. So if you do great due diligence in recruiting and hiring and you go super in depth of trying to quote and quote higher out bad attributes or bad character, which is you can't you'll never get everything right.
 You're never the hiring process, the best hiring process never get everything. But it increases your chances of hiring people who actually really want to work and who are going to be a great cultural fit for your company.
 As a leader, you've got to focus on that, of hiring people who actually want to work because here's the thing that's so irrational. Go back to the stats we were just talking about.
 The people who are in the stats of saying, let's just a little back and look at one, 77% of remote workers say they're more productive when working from home. So let's assume that that is fully true.
 Is that does that sound like a crummy team member? No, it sounds like somebody who wants to be productive. It sounds like somebody who wants to work.
 Who doesn't want the distractions that come at times with working in an office or with people on the right and on their left.
 There's a lot of people tell you it's hard for them to get work done because other people are so distracting and people popping into their cubicle or offices.
 Office going, hey, could you help me with this? Hey, I need this.
 And that there is some good separation and boundary to some people are experiencing, not that there's not value at times to spontaneity.
 That's a, there's not value to sometimes popping in an office and saying, hey, this is come up.
 Let's discuss it or let's ideate on it and get some creative thought going there's a lot of value to that.
 Go to those steps. The fear that I'm really driving into here is that fear really that I've hired the wrong person or for someone who's on your team who's going to go remote.
 It's a fear that they're all the sudden going to become a bad hire. Well, are they now?
 Because my experience is, folks going to show up in the office that that needs to be dealt with already.
 Yeah, and so those are some excellent points. We're going to dig down into more of the fears and even some of the benefits that are starting to come out as we get into these questions.
 But I just want to mention because those are huge points that you just made about the care that we take with hiring in our onboarding and training process.
 Guys, if you feel like you need to go back and examine some of the training, some of the onboarding, some of the hiring process that you have, we have whole episodes dedicated to those very subjects.
 I'll just weigh in from my side of things over here as a remote worker and in a foreign country. I actually talked to a colleague the other day here in Italian.
 And they were saying to me, you know, it's an interesting work what you do that you're able to do this work.
 And they said to me, this would never work over here. And I went to them and I said, well, what do you mean by that? And they said, well, just culturally, no one would ever trust that you're at home actually doing the thing that you're doing.
 The thing that you're supposed to be doing. And it came to me, you know, as I was reflecting on that, well, it's because we have processes in place. We use a sauna. We have accountability.
 There are, you know, care, and there are different things metrics that we use and in the hiring process, the onboarding and all the training that alleviates the stress and the fear to a large degree from leaders.
 So that they can delegate and empower their workers to do the work that they're supposed to do in these remote settings. And so all of that's possible.
 If you have the right, you know, processes and metrics in place. So that brings us to the questions that we want to dig into here's the first one.
 We've done with a lot of change as a company. I've already kind of mentioned that now we've even got Chris and Heather in a certain sense.
 There, there are a little bit remote because they're on the ridge and we're going to talk more about that and some upcoming episodes.
 What's going on at the ridge, but as, as very away, I mean, just imagine from the owners perspective, they're not here hands on running thing.
 So we've got to be able to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do this. We've got to do
 I'm not talking about tackling tackling this well. I feel like because of how much time we have taken and been so intentional about building unity on the team, practicing and teaching high levels of quality communication,
 having strong accountability, having strong culture that we do our absolute best to protect.
 Having the leaders not in the crazy cycle where they can actually be focusing on their teams and working with their teams and so much more that that allowed us as it allows other companies to just bend into going remotely.
 Without that stuff, it's going to be super tough.
 It's going to be absolutely a nightmare probably for you. And going remotely will just really highlight all of your problems you already have and it will actually,
 it's like it will pour gasoline on them instead of on fire. If I'm not being dire enough and extreme enough, that's probably what's going to happen.
 Even with great people, if those systems and processes and cultural pieces and communication pieces are not there.
 So I think these are all, these things have helped us immensely be able to do this. So we focus so much on communication and we know how vital high levels of quality communication are.
 We already built the systems and processes to facilitate great communication. So when you at remote one of your concerns isn't that we talk to was not communicating.
 And I get that, I totally get that and that's the sign of a team member who actually cares, right, that you're like actually be bringing it up and you realize this could be a vulnerability.
 Well, because I've led remote people, I already know, but this in place, that in place, this in place, and this in place, and we're going to be fine.
 Even though you are a day ahead of me as my team member. So I think those kinds of pieces being intentional about community being conditional about how we actually care for team members.
 So I think about things like this. I'll use one example, one A, Chris is daughter.
 When A ran a race the other day and I knew she was training and doing this big race.
 I had no idea that we actually sent her a care package to celebrate her and the race that she was doing.
 I didn't know that. And as soon as I heard it, I loved that we did that because Catherine just handled stuff like that.
 And so that's just one example of what do we do to actually maintain community yesterday. As another example, Catherine went and did some things for Chris and Heather because,
 and because they've been at the ridge, and she took them things that were thoughtful and caring.
 If we don't think that way or if you don't think that way, get somebody on your team to tap into somebody on your team who thinks,
 how do I serve and take care of other people and it makes it work really beautifully?
 Fantastic. And so you mentioned some things as we've brought members, we've had them in house and we've brought on new remote and some of those people in house and now migrating out house.
 Can I say that in the out house? I guess I'm in the out house. Well, I guess this is better than the dog house.
 There are some some newer obstacles that we're encountering because as you said, I'm seven hours ahead of where you guys are and then Lone is what two hours behind you on the west coast.
 And so we've got these huge gaps.
 That is one of the newer, more modern, global obstacles where you've got these huge time gaps.
 Let's dig into some other newer obstacles as we've got more members going remote.
 But we're still a central kind of location where we have events and people come to our location in Franklin for these events.
 But our team is increasingly spread abroad. What are we noticing? What are some of the tension or the changes that are happening?
 Some of the things that are going on there, which first of all, I love that you're in the future because then you can text me.
 I can wake up and bring a text from you like Joel, watch out for this stuff that's coming.
 It's heading west.
 So some of the things are, what it comes down to is that if you have great communication and you have processes that facilitate great communication and you have processes and software systems that document processes and the work that's being done.
 And communication is all taking place in the same place. There's great clarity going into projects.
 We're solving the problems along the way when we encounter communication breakdowns or process breakdowns.
 You can have people all over the world and all different time zones because you're planning with it in mind.
 You're not just saying, do the work.
 You're planning and you're actually stopping to be able to think through what is this going to be like? Well, if this is going to happen here and this is the due date, what is having people in different time zones, fact or end, to the work that's being done, when those people can actually communicate and you simply plan to it.
 But that brings up one of the key challenges that a lot of leaders who were stuck in the leadership crisis cycle have, which is they don't have enough time to think and create and plan and create strategies and create processes and involve 13 in the creation of these things.
 So we're just operating. We're just go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. Putting up fires, solving emergencies, getting involved and stuff that you never planned on getting involved in that day.
 And you have such limited time to actually do creative thinking and good planning.
 And I think you're hitting on where I think could be a trouble spot for a lot of our listeners, especially if they, if either a, they don't have those remote workers yet, they likely will looking at the statistics that we just said.
 Or they've encountered problems and they've just been putting out fires. It does take some time zoom out assess what's going on. Do some thoughtful, caring, careful planning about how to resolve those things.
 And I love that we keep pointing to look, guys, there's a process for things. You're not just without tools or without the right equipment to combat some of these challenges.
 But with the right to, and it's amazing that a lot of our processes already lend themselves to resolving these things. The things that we've been teaching the Chris has been teaching on this podcast for years already lends itself to like the communication that you're talking about now like the processes that we have using different tools like a son and others and we're not getting money from them for saying that that's just what we use, but it works.
 It just, it just works, but it's, it's not all negative either. Some of the new obstacles or challenges that we've been seeing. We're also seeing that there are some emerging benefits from having different perspective different time zones and collaboration.
 And I think I'll just kind of kick that off. One of the benefits I think that we could be seeing as a company and all this is still relatively new in the sense that our team is growing into remoteness.
 One of those emerging benefits is the careful amount of planning and the ideation that can happen, but just having the collaboration, the careful collaboration of who do we need to bring in to each conversation, what's vital, what's important, who doesn't need to be there.
 I mean, I think there's a higher level of scrutiny if I can use that in a positive sense that we're thinking through very carefully choosing the team members putting them in the right place, having those conversations that we need to have.
 And before it might have been a little bit more improv or just spontaneity or let's just group everybody together for that, but now we're seeing that we're actually being very strategic, I guess, with our collaboration with our communication.
 So what are some other benefits that we're already reading? So I think another huge benefit is the power of structure and the power of defining things.
 So when you have great clarity and structure, structure meaning organizational structure, who lead to who is accountable for what? And then you get to definition within structure.
 What is the strategy that you're executing as your business, this pointing you to a vision? Have we built now the strategies or the goals to actually get to that vision in terms of operations, sales, marketing, finances, everything that we do, event planning, all of it.
 The leadership development team, all the coaching programs that we have, there is so much structure that we have and so many defined processes and defined strategies that are written down and there are actually the leaders and team members live within these things.
 And then you've got things like your KRAs that are pointing to KPIs and key results areas and then we meet on those things and we update and we set up team members to be successful in that stuff and we hold people accountable to what is their job.
 And we tackle tough conversations when we need to. When we do all this stuff, it creates so much structure and definition and that provides clarity that everybody knows this is mine, this is my job, this is my team, who does what, why are we doing it all and then we fix and solve problems along the way.
 Without that level of structure and definition, it would be chaos all over the place.
 Yeah, yeah, and I wonder if that's where some people feel the rub of remote workers and those fears creep in of well, are they doing what they're supposed to be doing?
 I don't know what's going on, even the leader can feel because you know, one of the statistics, one of the stats that we mentioned was one of the biggest challenges associated with remote workers feeling, you know,
 that ability to unplug after work, just having those boundaries so that you know you're clocking out and you can disconnect from the work because those days can run long loneliness, yeah, that feeling, I mean, you know, the word remote just means it literally means to be disconnected from and having little relationship with
 and so then communication collaboration become so important without that kind of communication that we're talking about, even the leader can feel disconnected from his or her team.
 And so it's a two way street there and I love what we're bringing that up.
 So when we come back, some of the problems that team members face and how to improve your leadership from far away.
 Hey, leaders, this is Joel Fortner, VP, Leadership Development, a Chris L'Cardos company.
 I have some questions for you.
 Do you as a leader feel like you are caught up in a crazy cycle of stress and tasks that never ends week to week?
 Do you ever have to deal with tough conversations with team members and you sit at home the next day the night before worried about how's it going to go?
 Are you going to say what are they going to say? Can I think fast enough on my feet? Is it going to be a total failure?
 Are you experiencing culture problems or that stuff that just breaks down trust and unity on your team?
 Well, if you can relate to any of this, this is a pretty typical leadership story in situation.
 Here's the thing though, it doesn't have to be that way and we can help you solve these things.
 We can help you become the leader that solves these problems and leads 13 to greater success.
 I want to introduce you to the key leaders program.
 This is an ongoing leadership development program that gives you the less-intract coaching and accountability you need to become the leader you can become.
 To actually implement what you're actually learning in this program.
 Things fall apart without great leadership and intentionality. If you want to solve the problems that are holding you back from being a great leader, we can help you with this program.
 Get in touch with Joel at pricicardo.com.
 Alright, so here we are again. I want to flip the script a bit at this point and look at things from a little bit different point of view of the team member who is remote.
 On the other side of the coin, I can attest to what some of the stats that we mentioned before before the break that remote means to be removed from and have little connection with.
 That can be a huge problem. One of the things that we've already talked about is having the processes and having the equipment or the tools, the programs and place and the communication is such a big thing.
 And as you mentioned earlier, that was one of my fears, I guess, before going remote is, okay, is the current level of communication that we have inside of the office sufficient.
 We can build in more structure. You can mention that word structure right before the break. So I want to just roll through a couple of rapid via things. What can team members do to help bridge that communication gap.
 If you have a fear over anything, that means you're probably lacking information. So when taking responsibility, you should do similar to what you're doing as you came to me and you were asking, you were sharing, hey, these are my concerns, this is what I see.
 Totally legit, totally get it. Why? Because you don't want to be remote like you're out in the jungle, but then you're still being held responsible for stuff, but nobody's communicating with you.
 Nobody's helping you actually do it. No one's leading you. No one's communicating with you. No one's giving you the clarity and information. So you come to your leader and we talk through it.
 And we talk through this is what we're going to put in place. Here's this meeting. Here's this meeting. There are already on your calendar. They're set up. This is what we're going to talk about. This is what I'm going to be here to do for you.
 This is where I'm going to be here to help ideate. This is where I'm going to be here to answer questions or not going to not do it. It's going to happen as much as humanly possible.
 If we can't meet on that Wednesday, what do we do? We move it to Tuesday because I and your leader, I'm super intentional about communication because my focus is on making you successful.
 I don't want you to feel like you're out in a jungle. I want you to feel set up for a success in that's my mindset.
 And so, you know, if you're one of those team members and you were remote, do what we teach here. You've here to be avert Chris. Angel talk about it before. Don't wait for clarity.
 If you have doubt, if something is unclear, if you're lacking information like Joel just said, don't wait for clarity to come to you go to the source of that information,
 where was over you leading that team, whatever, get the information, get the clarity, be the squeaky wheel and get the oil that you need to function properly.
 So, so important. All right, second question along this line, what can leaders put into place to curb their fears about remote workers?
 Once again, information, information, structure, definition, communication, how is it going to take place?
 Because if you're a leader and you've got fears about people going remote in certain roles, we need to gain perspective to see now what does this mean, what needs to take place?
 And what is that? Give me some earmarks. If I'm a leader, and maybe I'm not even cognizant, I'm not even aware that I'm acting in fear.
 What are my tendencies going to be towards my team members? A lot, you're going to have a lot of objections. You're going to have a lot of, yeah, but yeah, but that shuts down perspective.
 I'm not saying you have to go remote with your team. I'm saying, look at what's possible. Live in a world of options and what's possible, not in can't be done can't be done, because you're shutting down learning.
 There go to what's possible, gain the perspective. Now when I get enough perspective, I talk to people who've done it, I listen to podcasts like this, I go and read the non-billion books on leading remote workers out there now, that I now get the, what, I now get the keys from other people who are out in front of me on this, and I put that stuff in place to get the information.
 If you're in fear and then faith on top of it, it's information.
 And I imagine, too, if you've already got that team and you're experiencing some fearsome anxiety about team members not knowing what they're doing, not, you know, the tendency is probably going to be to, you know,
 over exaggerate certain things or to micro-manage or to just manage and not lead your team because you're scared that they're not following because you can't see them as closely and monitor as closely as if they're sitting there in the office.
 But, you know, again, that communication, that's a powerful image that, you know, fear can be drowned by information and the voice of fear can be silenced with enough good clear information.
 And I think that will resolve so many of the fears and the difficulties that leaders and team members alike experience with with remote working. And so the last one along this line is how do leaders from the leader perspective, how do you take better care of your team members.
 You know, I know a couple of times already, you know, in this remote scenario that we've got as a leader you've asked me how can I lead you better you're always looking for room to improve.
 So for the leader out there who has remote teams, what can they ask themselves, how can they gain that perspective and where would you lead them to go to improvement.
 So on the topic of caring for team members, for this starts with just who you are as a person, who are you, what do you value, what's your mindset, if you're so focused on task and productivity.
 And you're not focused on people and remembering that people are people and they're not robots.
 You'll never get down this path of how do I love and care on my team member, how do I ask the right questions, how do I know a little bit at least about what's going on in their life.
 Where I can meet them where they're at and I can send them a care package. I also have to know the perspective of hey just because you're maybe in the office or maybe you're the personality style leader that's very task and doesn't need a lot of connection with people or that doesn't need a lot of community that doesn't mean your team doesn't need that.
 And if you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office, you're not in the office,
 So if you're not a caring who cares at least a little bit, you don't have to if you're not a high-high in high-s, you don't have to force that in your personality style.
 It's a matter of how I'm being intentional and do I know the information that hey part of working remotely is people can feel disconnected and you can go to well, yeah but we do zoom calls all the time and we're on the phone and give it what's all of it about task strategies, processes.
 I think about their life because you're not in an office with somebody overhearing a conversation that they're having that if you had been in the office you would have walked over to them and say, hey tell me more about that.
 And for those of you that are out there and you want more information we have so much. We have so much information. So many podcasts, episodes, so many tools on the website that you can go and find about personality styles like Joel was mentioning.
 I think it's the disc, the ISC personality profiling system. You can go and you can see tools to gain from our website for using those tools.
 We've got episodes about leading teams using personality styles.
 And we're going to come to our last question here. And so we've zoomed. I don't know. I think we went to a micro level right then talking about the the makeup of the leader themselves.
 And the things that they need to get past in order to lead well now we're going to go to a macro level and zoom all the way out. So we've been discovering that leading remotely continues to become more and more the standard just in the world.
 And so what else do leaders, business owners, even companies at large need to think about changing in terms of and as a social vision and strategy. What what needs to change fundamentally in order to stay on top of this emerging phenomena.
 And so you've got to ask yourself some tough questions and be willing to get past some of those fears about well what is possible and why not why wouldn't we explore.
 I think a lot of companies actually had to that we're forced to do that during COVID uncomfortable as it was to do that in the middle of a pandemic and it was kind of you know crisis management control.
 But now that we're you know coming back into a normal economy slowly. I wonder if there are things that fundamentally have to change about how we look at people teams and businesses at large. What do you think?
 You know my where my mind goes on that is this stuff comes back to the mission of your company. If you've got to start with clarity on why do we exist who are we and then we've got to say does that hold true.
 Has anything changed on that? No. Has anything changed on the vision meaning the destination we're trying to take the company.
 Note that's all still the same. Well then we back got it that into strategies to get to that vision and live out that mission has anything changed on that.
 Some. Okay. What's changed because we have to go to now the team that executes the strategies and the KRAs that exist and the teams in the accountability structure that exists.
 What needs to involve Bob and we even move and what do we need to edit and then look at now what do we think of this. Here's actually a better way to actually execute the team or to lead the team and for the team to execute the team.
 Not an execution. Yeah. We don't need to that's a very that's a hard hard consequence.
 But that's drastic. That's great. But we've got to look at things like that and say okay if my mission vision strategies are all still true.
 What are we doing as a company? How do we serve our customer which is the whole reason we really exist and then look at go from there.
 To see what team do I need because this will help you to see and get greater clarity on how much of my team could actually take remote for those who actually own a lot of property.
 And don't want that property or you're leasing space and it's a huge line item in your P and L.
 You may see this and be like man if I can get this leadership stuff right and all these things that Chris Joel Brian and talking about this could actually save me thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of dollars.
 If I can offload a rep payment that I'm making.
 Yeah, even to some degree there's a ton of companies that are offloading real estate right now because they realize we don't need it.
 So what I'll I'll close with this one of my best friends we've been friends since college he works for the federal government as I used to.
 And he's a senior leader now within his organization and he's lived in Washington, D.C. Northern Virginia for a long time now.
 And when COVID hit he went remote and then his organization stayed remote because they realized we can do all of this with people at home in their own office faces and workspaces and there was they were like we can do this we don't need actually have all this now government own space or the government paying rent to something to actually have space.
 And this is what just happened he just moved his family to Athens, Georgia back closer to their families and there has been zero hiccup because he's simply able to maintain if I can do this from Northern Virginia.
 I can do it from anywhere and they chose to bring their family and their kids back closer to grandparents closer to friends closer to brothers and sisters.
 And it's possible it's all a matter of how we view it in our minds that around it.
 Yeah, it's awesome.
 It's great.
 So guys if you're listening to Brian and I talk today if you're especially if you're a new listener this is the stuff that we help business owners and leaders navigate.
 We help you make better decisions and help you plan better that's what's strat plan when you come here for four days and work with Chris or you join next several mastermind which is a business and leadership coaching program.
 You don't have to do all this on your own.
 This is what we help leaders and owners do.
 So if you're interested in any of these go to our website go to Chrisacordo.com go check out the business coaching page or executive coaching page and get some information.
 If you want to talk to me or Aaron in choir about it, we'll set up a call have a good quality conversation about it and we'll go from there.
 But you don't have to navigate difficulties and uncertainties and problems by yourself.
 That's what that's what we can come along and be in just partner with you.
 Well Brian, thank you brother for being on the show today being on Chrisacordo as we've hijacked it.
 Hopefully we've hijacked it successfully.
 We might get it back.
 This was fun though.
 It is fun.
 We want to launch.
 From the night when a lot of our own podcasts, I grew up into that at another time not waste your time today.
 But thank you for helping me unpack it.
 Thank you for helping share some super valuable perspective.
 As you are well into the day, and Sicily, and I'm just beginning my day here in central Tennessee.
 But with that folks, I hope this information is helped you today.
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]