 On today's episode, the coaches gathered together to discuss the most listened to episodes of 2021.
 What were the most important takeaways from those episodes and what we need to carry with us into 2022?
 All of that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks. Hope you're having a fabulous day.
 I am joined today by Joel and Aaron. Welcome to the show, guys.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you for having us.
 But before we get into that, really quickly before we dive into things, we want to remind you about the next level leadership live event that is coming up soon.
 So if you are a business owner or leader, this event was designed specifically for you.
 Now we are in the extreme early bird phase and you can get 30% off of your tickets to do so.
 Go to crystalcurd.com/nextlevelleadership to reserve your seats today.
 Folks, we are super crazy excited about this event.
 I know it's already going. We just launched it and it's been going pretty crazy.
 We did and we've got so many leaders that have already committed and are coming in April more than we've ever had at this time.
 What?
 What?
 It's a lot opening up a registration.
 It's amazing.
 We are super excited.
 Alright, so jumping into today, Aaron.
 What are we doing?
 Well, I think it's a great thing for us to reflect back on this last year and look at what the top ten episodes
 of the podcast over the last 12 months.
 We've been able to do 52 different episodes.
 This year, there's been the 50 second one.
 We celebrated our 400th episode, and here's the beginning of the year.
 So with this being episode 450 and the last of 2021,
 let's take a review back on what the top ten episodes were for this year.
 How does that sound to you guys?
 Sounds good to me.
 I don't have anything else to do, bro.
 I'm not sure if that's what you're doing.
 It sounds as though we're just randomly doing this.
 Yeah, I think that's a great idea.
 We should have planned this.
 Boy, look at this.
 We actually have a list.
 It's already been crazy.
 You've been here.
 Oh, so.
 Alright, so take it away from us.
 Just like Casey Cacem's top 10.
 We're going to wrap up the top ten songs.
 We're going to be the top ten episodes of this year.
 Starting with episode number 10,
 it was episode 424, which was beliefs, shape, your future.
 And this was actually one of our coaches episode, where we actually
 pause and reflect on what our beliefs were and what shaped our future.
 And so what we want to do is just take a few minutes and kind of just
 speak back on those episodes and talk through what happened with that.
 So let's just get some feedback from you guys.
 What do you remember from that episode that stood out for you?
 Well, I think for me.
 By far the most important thing from that episode was the decision-making process.
 I think with everything that we teach here, whether it's next level of life,
 whether it's leadership stuff, it doesn't matter.
 Everything that we're teaching revolves around this decision-making process.
 And I think one of the tough things for people to really understand or really get
 sometimes is that the things that they are believing, the things that they are telling
 themselves, the, you know, whether it's positive, whether it's negative,
 whatever that self-talk is, whatever the belief systems they
 ascribe to, those are all creating that decision-making process.
 Doesn't matter what it is in life, right?
 Whether it's on making big decisions, making big purchases,
 whether it's where you go to eat food, you know,
 how many times have you decided not to go to the restaurant because you know the weight
 or weightress there and you're like, well, I don't want to see that person today, right?
 There's so many things in these belief systems that we have that drive our decisions
 and when we truly get that and we truly understand that we can change either the belief systems,
 you know, maybe they're good, maybe they're bad, maybe we can enhance them, maybe we need to get rid of them.
 But we can learn how to drive our decisions better because we understand the belief systems that we have in our minds.
 I think the thing I'll jump in here on is looking at, well, I take a step back and look at this episode
 and look at many of the episodes that are going to be in the top 10,
 are looking at how many people are interested in this kind of learning, they're interested in information of how do I grow
 a better decision-making process and how do I improve what I believe and especially when it comes to shaping my future.
 I think it was, I think it was such an intriguing topic for people because it seems like people are just all over the place
 or so fascinated in. I cue the emotional, smarts if you will and I think that so many of our listeners or those kinds of people
 that are I mean think about their listening to this show because what are they wanting to do, learn and to get good information and change
 who they are and change how they do things.
 Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, that's good. Thanks for sharing guys.
 So number nine then was episode 426 which is redefining financial success and Chris, this is an episode that you and Brian were on together
 and talked a lot about how success is defined and it's an interesting tie because obviously we all have connections even coming through
 financial peace university with Dave Ramsey but really stepping into what was financial success for a individual and for a business leader
 and what did that look like and so one of the things that I know that you and Brian talked about was relationship specifically relationships with money. I'd love to hear kind of your take on that.
 Well, yeah, so so much of you know how I look at finances is based more on God than anything.
 So for me money is a tool money is something that is to be used. I am not crazy focused on building incredible wealth. I discovered and I think I shared this on the episode if I remember correctly that there was a time I dropped my head and just busted it and just kept working.
 In 10 years later I looked up going, wow, I've made a lot of money and there's parts of my life that are missing and it's not that I was making money the major focus.
 It's just that I didn't realize that getting myself into a specific place and life had become more important than some other things.
 So for me, I think it's ridiculous not to do things like go through financial peace universe. I think it's ridiculous not to understand how you're losing money when you don't understand money.
 I think it's ridiculous to get into debt. I think it's ridiculous to outspend what you earn. I think all of these things are just silliness. Why? Well, I taught it for 20 years, right?
 But I think when you get to this understanding of how to utilize finances as a tool.
 And you couple that with there's never going to be a time we get to have and God's going to go, I'm super impressed with the bottom line of the business.
 I mean that was just incredible. That's not as focus, right? His focus is on us as human beings, his focus is on helping people get closer to him and for us to be live more peacefully as brothers and sisters in Christ.
 And so when you look at it, for me, I had 51, they come 51.
 I spent a lot more time looking at finances as that tool of how do I use this to further God's kingdom?
 And how do I use this to create opportunities for people to get closer to him or for my family to get closer to him?
 And how do I use finances to set up our future that it's also feeding into that?
 So that's for me that's my relationship with money is I don't look at money as something that is that incredibly important anymore when it comes to worth.
 Well, that's not the worth of money, but my worth, right? It's not that that part's not the important part. What's my relationship with God? What's my focus? What do I feel like he's directing me to do in life?
 And then how do I utilize the tools that he is blessing us with? And a good stewardship way that can impact the kingdom of heaven.
 No, that stewardship word of their Chris is such a key. That's the one that always comes back to me is just that word stewardship.
 And what that means and what the Bible talks about with that and you're absolutely right. It's just that whole thing of recognizing that it's not ours to begin with anyway.
 It's us being stewards of what his his and whether we're doing in life or in business. This is where that financial success comes from because it's not the world's view of financial success.
 And so that's what that redefining of that was. So number eight on our list was episode number four twenty five, which was beyond task excellence as a work ethic.
 And I'm going to pull out a scripture right here on the very beginning of this one and it's collocian three twenty three whatever you do do with all of your heart as of working for the Lord and not for man.
 So we utilizing that scripture in this podcast talk a little bit about about this and what what you guys have got coming out of this lesson.
 So yeah, this is one that I think I think appealed to people because I believe it I think people are after how do we how are we more excellent what we do it's something that we we teach a ton on we talk about it all the time and we focus on it so heavily as a team.
 And that I think it's something that people are after how do we do things better how do we not this to accomplish tasks. But how do we have excellence and everything that we do and as leaders how do we lead in create a culture of excellence.
 So much of that is it's not settling for things it's having tough conversations is having accountability it's looking for all those things that make you an excellent organization.
 High performing were thorough organized we focus on results the culture is fabulous and I think it's I'm so glad actually that this episode has played so well.
 I love that people are after this this whole concept of of excellence as a work ethic I mean to me it's very intriguing as a leader if I didn't listen to our show when I came across that title.
 As I mean I think I'm a pretty high performing a busted I go after stuff I drive it things as a leader I would be intrigued with just okay what does that really mean as a work ethic that means a daily practice of excellence I want more that.
 Yeah I think well I mean when we look at our clients right the people that we do get to see so there's a lot of folks a lot of you out there that are listening to us that we've not had the pleasure of meeting or running into or talking to.
 So what we have to base on is is those folks that do come to the events join the programs whichever send in information send in questions and I think when we look at the folks who are following us I think they're looking for that already like you're saying.
 You know if you were in a part of this that would intrigue you just because of what we're talking about excellence as a work ethic and I think so many folks that are listening to us either desire that already you know are they're already doing it they already have excellence as a work ethic and understand it.
 And if you desire it they haven't figured it out yet or they know that there's more than just showing up and doing it you know a days worth of a J ob right.
 I think the folks that listen to us are more along those lines of this is what I want as a part of my life and one of the things we've heard a lot as people that are in crappy situations and I'm sorry if you if it you that you're in a bad culture where you want to be excellent we you know the early days we used to get that question a lot.
 I think that's the reason why I'm doing it because I think that's the reason why I'm doing it because I think that's the reason why I'm doing it because I think that's the reason why I'm doing it because I think that's the reason why I'm doing it because I think that's the reason why I'm doing it because I think that's the reason why I'm doing it because I think that's the reason why I'm doing it because I think that's the reason why I'm doing it because I think that's the reason why I'm doing it because I think that's the reason why I'm doing it because I think that's the reason why I'm doing it because I think that's the reason why I'm doing it because I think that's the reason why I'm doing it because I think that's the reason why I'm doing it because I think that's the reason why I'm doing it because I think that's the reason why I'm doing it because I think that's the reason why I'm doing it because I think that
 I think that's a show up and do a work as unto the Lord so it's already it's just a natural fit we love it it's great.
 But what is it like I've been in multiple environments where I was in the crappy environments I was in industries where I hated what I did but I knew God had me there for a reason and a time period.
 I can continue to do my work for him not for the people around me who didn't really give a crap right and I think that's one of the big pieces is if you're going to have excellence as a work ethic it has to be a higher purpose and it's got to be that God has got you in that place and listen if he hasn't moved you yet then piece to let you there for a reason.
 So what does it look like to show up every day and not do your work you know obviously you got to do your work for the people that are paying you but you have eight hours today what can you do for God.
 That's really good yeah thanks Griss for that I appreciate that and it's just a great reminder even for me and for our whole team just we we talk about that like you said we talk about it it comes up.
 It's a regular part of our culture and who we are and it it really does it drives us to want to be the best team members that we can be for the organization but not because we're doing it for you because we're doing it for God.
 Exactly.
 If you're doing it for me then I got to manage you if you're doing it for God then I get to lead you.
 Yep, that's a great way to put it right there.
 Folks, when we come back they can't down continues with the race to the number one most listen to episode of 2021.
 Hey it's Joel Fortner here I'm the vice president of leadership development on Chris his team and I oversee our next level mastermind business coaching program.
 Most business owners and leaders like a clear path to succeed in business they question whether they're making the right decisions if they're focusing on the right things to really grow their business.
 If this is you you need a coach in your life coaches help you make better decisions navigate uncertainty lead more effectively and grow your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue and an average of 138% increase in net profit and regain hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3.5 years simply because of the results they get.
 So if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting then visit ChrisCarto.com/mastermind again.
 ChrisCarto.com/mastermind today.
 Alright and we're back Chris Joel.
 Thanks for joining us on the show today and talking through our top 10 episodes of 2021.
 I will get through these here in just a moment.
 We've been through the top 10 9 and 8 so we're going to now jump into number 7 which was episode 423 limiting belief systems lies leaders tell themselves.
 This is an episode that Chris you and Brian were talking about and digging into lies that leaders often believe.
 Let's dig into that one for a moment.
 Yeah this for me gosh I think we just poured out some.
 I think we poured out a lot of every episode but man I tell you what it is.
 This is one of those tough things that you know so much of this business is spent on helping people to try and get rid of the lies.
 The crap that they tell themselves and the lies that they believe and it's so interesting probably 97-98% of the time as we talk through with folks saying hey like what we're doing next level of life.
 Hey there's lies that you tell yourself we're going to focus on some of those right now.
 People are right there. Yep I know I do.
 Every now and then you'll find that there are people that don't actually understand that.
 They don't recognize that they tell themselves lies.
 I'm not good enough. I'm not smart enough. I'm not funny enough. I'm not handsome enough.
 I'm attractive enough. My my position with the company is my value is a person.
 My team's performance is a direct reflection of my leadership and obviously it is but there's aspects to that.
 If I show my ignorance I can't let my team know that I am a failure or I've failed things because if I do then I'm going to lose their respect for me.
 There's all of these lies that we tell ourselves and I think this was one of those ones that we see.
 It's one thing when I tell myself lies and I affect myself.
 It's another thing when I tell myself lies and it affects my family that really really sucks as well.
 It's another thing when I tell myself lies and it affects a whole team of people.
 Right it's affecting a business group of people.
 So I think for me this was just a very important one for us to walk through specific things that we actually see people struggle with and help them to overcome.
 You may not fully overcome it until you can get into like a deeper next level of life or something like that but at least the awareness of how do I get myself out of this.
 This lie and what does truth look like and how do I get to that truth faster and how do I not allow this to affect not only myself but I don't want to affect my family.
 I don't want to affect my team. I don't want to affect my business.
 Well I think for just speaking on this for a moment I think even for myself.
 You know the lies that if you're not careful that you can tell yourself all have to do with it's funny.
 You talked about next level of life, Chris, but even in a business standpoint a lot of the lies is a business leader come back to worth.
 Yeah. My value, my worth is in my position and the team that I lead the things that I do, the task that I accomplish.
 You know well even going so far to say well my team can't do the stuff they need to do without me.
 Yeah.
 And putting so much value and worth in that that you prevent your team and you prevent yourself from even growing.
 That's so funny. We actually had a discussion at leadership lunch about that recently of just talking through how do we guide people that when they think that it's all I've got to take it all on.
 So that's another fantastic lie that we tell ourselves and what is it doing. It's keeping us from actually leading.
 Right.
 When we think that it's just easier for me to do this.
 I have to take on the responsibility or that it keeps us from leading.
 Yeah. Absolutely.
 That's good. That's good.
 Alright jumping to number six.
 This was episode 431 and it's going to be the first one to list that was a guest episode where you had Mr. Chris.
 I'm from TPC Construction Management on the show talking about leadership, his leadership journey, scalability and capacity.
 So knowing that both of you guys have worked with Chris.
 I've worked with Chris quite a bit and stuff.
 What I'd love to just speak in a little bit on that episode and what all was uncovered in that episode if you will.
 Yeah. Chris Kapp is just a rock star.
 You know, we love not only Chris but the whole leadership team, the team that's in Atlanta, the team that's in Nashville,
 they've got their Dallas and I mean, it's just they're all over and here's the great thing.
 Here's the thing I love.
 People ask me who's your worst client. It's so funny.
 I would never think to ask that question to somebody but I get that question for years.
 I mean, that's still a something I get to this day where people say, you know, who's your worst client.
 And I always say they say, "Mance or it's the person who doesn't implement."
 Alright.
 And so here we've got a Chris Kamp, high D personality style, high driver, a guy who just is constantly on the move,
 constantly bust and things open.
 And when he joined us in the beginning, there were definite things that it was like, "Hey man, these are problems."
 These are issues that we got to fix.
 You know, if we can adjust these things, if we can shift these things, here's where we're headed.
 And my gosh, it was like a cannonball out of a cannon, just boom.
 He and the leadership team, let's see, back in those days, it was him and Paul and Marcus.
 And let's think even West was on the team back in those days if I remember.
 Yeah, remember, remember, remember after that's right.
 And just they, they weren't ballistic.
 And you know, this came out of a strat plan that we did back in 2016.
 And they just went crazy, right?
 And they busted so much stuff and started moving stuff and implementing the very things that we teach.
 And then came back and then we ran through it again.
 And next thing you know, he's creating, you know, things that are coming out of the event are, hey, we should open up a commercial side.
 And next thing, you know, they're opening up a commercial side and they're raising leaders up.
 And then we have a whole new leadership team that's coming through that has been raised up through the business.
 And so the higher ups are moving into better places.
 And he's bringing people up through the team.
 And now we're operating with those folks and teaching them how to to operate at that level of excellence and communication.
 Just crazy powerful stuff.
 And we love seeing where they are.
 I mean, they're just they're doing so good.
 And of course, COVID had a, you know, kicked him in the teeth a little bit in the beginning as well.
 But they considerably overcame that and are just rocking with it.
 Yeah, I think Chris is just such a great story.
 And he's such a great person to learn from.
 And I'm so glad that people were digging this episode because they can hear the real life story of an entrepreneur.
 Just the hard work, the grind and the hustle of the whole thing.
 So we were doing this whole two days of team trainings with all of his companies recently.
 And then I was talking with him last week reflecting on, hey, how do you think it went?
 And we were talking about it. And after all the things you just said, Chris, Chris can't tell me that man, if he's thinking about the future of the companies.
 And he said something along the lines of it's the thing that's most important for me is that someone like a Leah can come to an event like this because we can give her opportunities that allow her to become a better mother for her new baby.
 He's like, that's why I do it.
 Yeah.
 That's where Chris is. That's where he's gotten to.
 And that is the heart of a leader right there.
 Which is so great.
 Because in the early days, we're going through a straight plan and I love this story because this is just the Chris's brain.
 How he operates in the early days.
 It's like we're walking through problem solving problems problems problems.
 He's like, okay, but where's the money?
 Okay, but where's the money? Okay, but where's the money?
 And we stopped that I've like, okay, if we do this, how much is it?
 Man, it's probably money bucks. If we do this, how much is that?
 That's probably another two-fifth.
 We just walked through all this stuff and all of a sudden he goes, okay, I'm good.
 And from that place of, okay, if we do all of this stuff, where's the money?
 How does that equate to revenue?
 To that's so far from being the focus.
 It's just like what we talked about in the earlier episode on, what was it?
 Number nine, redefining financial success.
 Chris is in that place where back then it was, well, what does this look like revenue-wise?
 And now he's sitting there looking at how does one of my leaders become a better mother?
 How does this affect her family?
 There's so many big things that are coming up in their businesses.
 And I've talked with him, I'm pretty darn sure you've talked with him as well.
 Just knocking some things around and everything is coming down to, you know, well, how is this going to affect my team?
 How does this affect, you know, if we do this, what happens with the team?
 And how do I want this? What's the direction I want this to go with my team?
 It's not about the money.
 It's not about, you know, where's the money you're going to come from?
 It's not, you know, is the money you're going to show up?
 It's so focused on people.
 And I think that is such a great thing.
 And Chris is one of such a large number of people who have had this type of impact, right?
 That in the early days, it's the, well, let's talk about the money.
 And now it's the praise God my people have an ability to become a better mother.
 I love, I unfortunately I wasn't here because I was out with COVID.
 That was fun.
 So I didn't get to be here.
 But, and that's the first time I've heard that.
 So that's just so powerful.
 Yeah, and I would, I would concur on what Joe was talking about.
 I, you know, we, I've talked with Wes and Jeremy and Taylor all leaders within the organization after that training that we did.
 And just the impact it had not only on them individually, but their teams.
 And, and like you said, we had their entire team here.
 Every single person from the top down was here and being able to pour into them and be able to get that information to them.
 But then that life change that they've got coming out of it.
 That they're changing the way they look at things.
 They're growing.
 They're becoming better team members out of it.
 It's just fantastic to see what's going on with that company.
 Absolutely.
 Well, moving on to number five was episode 439.
 How transformative is purpose.
 And this is an interesting one because the title of it was a little out there for I think for some people, but it, it run true in that we understand that there is,
 there is something about purpose about figuring out what our purpose is and going after that.
 And so I'd love to hear your, your take on that one.
 Again, I think I go back to our listeners.
 That we have an incredible number of people who want something bigger than a J.O.B.
 Right?
 The folks that are listening to these shows as we're talking through, hey, let's fix your business because it's going to help your team members become a better mother.
 Hey, let's, let's help you have a really good view of finances.
 So you don't spend your life trying to build an empire and then you figure out that you lose that you lost out on the whole ton of stuff.
 I think one of the great things I love about the people that follow us is that they care.
 Man, it is so tough for me.
 And again, I am 51.
 Right?
 I am, you know, not a spring chicken.
 I am a Jen Xer and I, you know, I think Jen Xer are some of the hardest working people and just, you know, we don't have a problem busting it, right?
 It's tough for me to watch people who could give a crap about purpose.
 Their purpose is, how do I work less?
 You know, how do I, you know, get through this life not doing much and, you know, focus all of my worth on man's opinion of me and just,
 it's just, it's tough.
 And so for me, I think that that is such a difficult thing is when I see folks that are like, and no matter how much you try and help, you're just wrong.
 You know, they're just so much smarter than you, no, no, no, no, the way, the way to a successful life is to continue to struggle through, you know,
 problem after problem after problem, not working hard and putting food on the table and, you know, taking care of important things.
 Instead, it's more, you know, I need to spend all day long on Instagram or TikTok or whatever the crap.
 As a teacher, it's tough to see that.
 And so I think one of the things I love is that, you know, when we teach an episode like that on how important purposes it transforms,
 when you have a great part, if you even had just have a good purpose in life, you know, having a good goal, right?
 But really a good purpose drives your decision making.
 It drives your desire to get off your butt and make some things happen.
 And I'm not talking about, let's go create a world of, of workaholics.
 I think if people have listened to me long enough to understand that is definitely not the direction that I go.
 But when you do put a good purpose in place, when you do recognize your purpose and it's more than men's opinion of you and men's comments about you and all that crap,
 that it's actually something higher than that than it changes the direction that you go.
 So the other day, the only thing I think I'll, all we could wrap on all these times,
 I don't think it's so long.
 It's like we open up a can of worms every time we hit a new topic here,
 but the thing to add to this is the other day, I was looking back on my healthy vineyard notes that the leaner,
 for those who don't know, it's the lesson we teach that is really awesome.
 It's transformative, but it's very difficult.
 And it's all about how do you become this healthier person and what is God doing in your life,
 even through difficulty and struggle and how do we get past self sabotage and just all this amazing stuff to know about yourself and move beyond better.
 As I was looking up my notes and there was a note that I wrote and I don't know if you said it, Chris or what,
 but the note was the only person I can't lead is the one who's not on the same mission as me.
 And I was like, I have not thought about that note until I just re-read it.
 And I'm like, it was just, it just struck me once again as so powerful because I think about it from a leadership lens
 in terms of leading purpose, leading mission within your organization, about how transformative is it.
 Well, think about that. Think about what I'm saying that I'll be reading back this note.
 That's how powerful it is for an organization. That's how it is, how powerful it is for a family.
 Think about if you're a parent right now that is struggling with this unity and your family.
 Are you all on the same mission?
 Right. Are you pointing in the same direction? Are you leading your family that way?
 The same questions apply within your team.
 It's in my, they're struggle in the team.
 Well, is there unity? Does everyone know that and have buy into the shared mission and shared vision?
 Because if you're as a lot of struggle, the answer is probably not.
 So it's well, shoot. What do I need to do as a leader?
 Yeah, I think that's so powerful when, like for us, we say, your mission is your purpose.
 Right. It's your purpose for existence.
 So what is my individual purpose for existence? What is my business's purpose for existence?
 What is my family's purpose for existence? When you look at that, that's that mission.
 What we use is a definition.
 And I think like you're just saying, if you are struggling with even just one team member, if you're to sit down and go,
 what is your purpose for showing up every day?
 And just get that response.
 It will, it'll be a, it could be a fantastic affirmation that you've done a great job communicating.
 And you have a great person on the team or it could also be a great smack upside the head of, oh my gosh,
 this person's not on the same mission as me.
 And so there's no way I'm ever going to get them where I want them to be.
 Because they're, they don't align with the purpose of the existence of this business.
 So that's good. That's powerful.
 It's so interesting, because I had a coaching call earlier today with one of our clients who, for 2022,
 what they're actually going to do is they're going to ask their team, every single person who's going to
 be from the top down to right.
 The five to seven most important things that they do in the business.
 And then they're going to meet with them and go, why does that matter?
 Oh, I love it. Oh, I love it. That's right.
 And the team member left the team member, let them know. This is why this matters.
 These are why I wrote these things down and dig into that with them and see that purpose piece.
 That's, that was really powerful. I thought it was a great time. And to what we're doing.
 Talking about with that lesson and with that podcast.
 So yeah, moving on to number four and a number three.
 We actually have a part one and a part two that line up today.
 So number four was episode 433. How challenges promote growth part one and number three was episode 434.
 How challenges promote growth part two.
 So let's talk about how those challenges promote growth and what that looks like.
 Yeah, I think again, I think these are our big because of the people that are following us because they actually have
 some what of an understanding and it's something that we talk about. If you're not experiencing stress, you're not going to experience growth.
 This concept that you're going to grow without problems, without challenges, without stress, without terrible times, tough times, difficult situations.
 You're just not going to grow. How do you grow? There's a great movie. It's a favorite movie of ours, which is called a good year.
 And this uncle is teaching his nephew. They're playing tennis and the nephew just loses and he just throws his rack and he's really pissed off.
 And the uncle is like, hey, a gentleman should acknowledge his losses as well as his wins.
 As well as his successes. And he goes, when you do that, what you recognize is how much better it is.
 He goes, I'm in learned nothing from winning. He learns from losing.
 And he goes, one of those things is how much better it is to win.
 And it's just such a great line because if you do nothing but win, then what happens? You get this false, flated ego,
 inflated ego, inflated ego, and in the stodavans who are amazing. I'm so great. My gosh, this whole business exists because of the failures in my life.
 Or the failures and other people's lives that I've learned how not to make the same mistakes.
 And the things that we teach are coming from years and years of getting just knocked around, dealing with stress, dealing with failure,
 and being okay with it. And so I think those two episodes resonate so well because the folks that are following us again are in that place of going, you know what?
 I'm okay. I can make it through challenging situations.
 You know, this reminds me of a leader I was talking to the other day that who's been with us for a long time.
 And something that struck him the other day that had not struck him before was his mindset around suffering.
 That he's grown so much that now he sees, I've been looking at this the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole,
 That he's grown so much that now he sees I've been looking at this the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the looking at it wrong. And I have heard you all teach this information for years and never connected until right now.
 And it was such a powerful place because that's a huge mindset change to go to say, you know, it's like, yeah, Chris, I hear what you're saying that that we grow the most due to the things that we want the least of in our life.
 That sounds great, but you can actually get there. You can actually really, you know, transcend to that place. If you, I don't know if that's a good way to say that or not.
 But you can, you can adjust your mindset. I think many of you all who listen to this show and listening to this now, possibly you're at that place where you're like, you know, that's exactly right.
 I've come through difficulty and hardship and I've come through trauma and I've come through a massive amount of healing and I've learned that that mindset, it's how we intersect struggle as it makes all the difference about how life is going to go going forward.
 You know, how submitted how surrendered are we to difficulty because we just know that it's going to be there in our mindset is you know, it's going to be my greatest teacher.
 Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, I'll even throw on with this because this reminds me so much of the lesson that you've taught so many times, Chris, on how we're like one.
 And the fact of what the grapes go through, the suffering, the stress, the pressure that they go through to create the great ones that they create.
 And you know, it's that whole thing and even the quote that you used in the episode from CS Lewis hardships, off to prepare ordinary people for an extraordinary destiny.
 And it's such a great quote, but just think about how much stress and pressure we all have to go through to make us be the person that we have to be.
 Yeah, there's a--
 And to shape us who we are.
 I think I shared this quote in one of the episodes as well, like, of the, well, I don't know if I did share it, but it's in the wider life is like wine or higher life is like wine.
 Where there's a wine maker in Burgundy who says, if you give wine grapes all the sun and water they want, they become lazy catch potatoes.
 But if you stress, you know, and he doesn't go on to this, but the concept is, but if you allow it to stress and struggle and strain, it becomes a phenomenal, complex, beautiful wine, you know, or beautiful grape that can become an amazing wine.
 So just that thought process when we're-- whenever we're trying to avoid pain and struggling and suffering, then all we're doing is pointing ourselves to becoming lazy catch potatoes.
 It's good. So number two, episode 413, with one of our guest episodes and it was actually with Mary Beth Fortner and her journey as a wife and mother.
 And so this was a great episode. I really enjoyed this episode getting the perspective because it helped me think about even my own wife and think about her journey and where she is.
 And being able to hear Mary Beth and of course I've known Mary Beth for years.
 I'm able to hear her story and to be able to tie that in with even us as individuals. And you know, it's so much-- it's so funny because this is-- a lot of people see this as a business and leadership show, but there's also a major life impact in the show.
 And seeing that aspect of it from her and her perspective and the conversation that you got at, you guys had was just so great for me to see. But I'd love to hear Chris is your perspective, but especially Joel, your perspective on this episode.
 Yeah, I would love to hear that as well. I mean, you know, Mary Beth and I go back. Gosh, what is it? 15-16? It's more than that now.
 It's got to be even more than that. It's all long. It's 18 years actually.
 18 years we go back. And so for me, there's just so much that I love about the episode and seeing her growth, but your her husband, what was it like listening to this episode?
 Oh, I'm just proud. Just proud listening because she's so phenomenal. And I've been able to see such amazing transformation over the years.
 And like when it was one thing for me to go through my next level of life event, it was another thing for her to go through because it was a major turning point in our life because we got thrust onto the same page.
 So many different ways. And life has been so different since then because of our growth and how that intersected and it's just continued over the years.
 There was a decent there was a, there was years between our events.
 And that was hard and I know that other married couples that have come to next to a life that once come through and the other hasn't have experienced that same thing.
 And it's a real thing. Like when we experienced a lot of growth and insight and someone else hasn't and we're married to that someone else that can create disunity can create.
 Oh, you think, oh, there's this all year or they haven't gone through that level of healing and growth that you have. And so it's just it's a real thing. So once she came through her event and then just the years of growth,
 since her since her event, it was neat to hear her reflect back on this on the show because I'm not listening to it and when it published that was literally the first time I had listened to the show.
 And I listened to it and I'm just so proud of her and I'm so happy about where we are as a married couple, especially now that we do.
 And I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I'm so proud of her and I
 And I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm
 I personally got to experience Joel and Mary Beth and the kids over at my house just a couple of weeks ago. We had them over there passing through town and had them over and I will tell you and I haven't even told Joel this so this is news to him,
 but my girls absolutely loved hanging out with your kids and just having a great time with them, but seeing you and Mary Beth parent the kids. And like you said, more not focusing on just raising kids,
 but focusing on raising adults and seeing that in the kids as who you guys are bringing them up is really just quite amazing. Yeah, thanks man. Good stuff. If I remember correctly, the first person to make me cry inside an ex-level life.
 Mary Beth, what do you go? Where do you go, and be? There have been a few crying events since then, but that was the toughest, that was the toughest event at that point of knowing her so well and having to lead her through something so difficult and not rescue, you know, one of my best friends.
 I was one of the tough things is sitting there going, I have got to push her and all I want to do is give her hug right now. So this is good stuff. All right, when we come back, the number one most listened to episode of 2021.
 Freedom, it's so powerful. I felt rejuvenated, almost renewed to some degree. I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment. So I was very comfortable there.
 That had a really big impact on me. It's going to be worth it. It's going to be hard. It's going to be even better on the other side. For me, it was just very refreshing and I want to say life giving for me. It really was.
 I would go through the next other life again and probably again and probably again because it's so powerful. I want you to ask yourself a question, could you hear the sense of hope and freedom and their voices just then?
 I want you to know that could be you. Look, it's easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns and unhealthy relationships. It's going to take some work, but yes, there is hope for you.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of self-awareness and freedom that they have or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like for you, then head on over to crissacardo.com/nextlevellife.
 We're back and we're hitting the number one episode and west. What have we got?
 So the number one episode was episode 437, choosing our influences, which was a coach's positive reflect episode.
 One that has the three of us on there. This one was I think, honestly, it may have been my favorite episode all year long as well, just because there's a chance for us as coaches to really get vulnerable and talk about the things that have influenced us both positively and negatively.
 And how those things have worked at our lives and our business lives and our personal lives and things like that. I loved hearing from you guys. What was your takeaway from that particular episode?
 Well, this, I don't even notice it, I think this was a fantastic episode for me to be able to share something that I feel like I'm constantly trying to help people understand.
 And that is what you allow to influence you is going to affect every aspect of your life. I don't care if it's a teacher. I don't care if it's a preacher, if it's music, if it's TV, if it's unhealthy friends, family members, if it's you, if you're negative self-talk is the thing that's influencing you so heavily, right?
 When you recognize how much things people experience social media, all of this stuff is impacting your decision making, right?
 And you can take a look and see whenever I remember correctly, I believe I shared on that episode how I haven't watched the news until COVID, I hadn't watched the news since the Gore Bush election.
 Because I used to turn it on in the morning and just get pissed on the way to, you know, I'd be driving to work upset, right? Because of just the ridiculousness and how much it was influencing me into a bad mood.
 Well, carry that over into all of your social media now, carry that over into that friend who just complains all the time, carry that over into that family member who's just a colossal victim all the time and constantly wanting, you know, you're being that ear for them to dump all their crap on.
 All of those things are influencing you and affecting you and affecting your decision making processes. So for me, I loved the episode because I felt like it was a really good opportunity to just dump a bunch of stuff out there that I want people to know.
 So that's what I loved about it.
 I think for me, I think this is another one of those episodes that point to how much people are wanting to learn how to change their decisions and grow and be better.
 And I think about all the episodes that we put out in the year that sometimes the most sometimes the most tool driven, practical, you know, content that we put out there like it does well, but it doesn't like it does as well as look at the top 10, look at the trend here is you guys want to just get better.
 Yeah, you all want to grow and be better and that's what this episode is all about that it's about it's in when the cool things about this episode is that this thing only came out like a few months ago, right, and it has more lessons than anything else that came out all year, that's absolutely amazing.
 So we look at to the power of influence and at first it says how much you all are interested in that topic, but when we think about, you know, what's our mission and our purpose and our life and do we align our influence with that, do we take do we look at it that way in terms of saying, what am I doing with my life like who am I, where am I trying to go, what is my purpose, therefore, what am I allowing in what information am I allowing in and it seems like you all are after
 more information on how do I make different decisions on that, how do I learn more about the power of influence because you know it's like until I learned that I never thought about oh my gosh, let me think about that the power of influence to the level of detail
 talking about how spending too much time with this kind of information on social media is negatively affecting my brain for the long term, it's training me to think in certain ways, it's training me to feel in certain ways, it's training me to react to situations in different ways and it's not always healthy because it's not as simple as saying well I'll just ignore that
 I'll see it coming and I'll just ignore that and it'll be easy and you know and we can't stand and pride and say well I'll be fine and I'll be impervious to that and I can stand back and watch it or I'll let that
 even that information that's like just you know appealing to some type of temptation or desire you have and like I'll be okay with that and because it's it's not the case it's so such a powerful topic
 let alone we think about the whole concept of like a healthy vineyard of what kind of influence are we allowing in that causes us the great
 growth to strain in a good way if it's such an important critical topic and I'm so glad that it resonated with you guys
 yeah absolutely
 yeah so as you guys have heard we've went through our top 10 episodes for this year and these are these are not chosen by us these are based on what you guys are listening to
 as you've heard us talk about these things have had an influence on you guys this year and so in the show notes we're going to put all these episodes again
 so you're able to go back and read and listen to any of them that you want share them with friends share them with family share them with people that you think can
 can learn from these episodes can get some valuable information out of it that's all we did this we wanted to recap
 the year and help you guys maybe you miss something maybe you missed an episode that could be really impactful for you
 and we want to make sure you get a chance to know what that episode is about and to be able to do that so with all that anyone have any final thoughts
 they want to add to our top 10 for this year I think my final thought is like this what you're right there and this was based on plays
 but I think the only error that I see is that this episode of Mary Beth Fortner was at number one
 well actually it was number one but we felt like that you know you work here you were
 there that doesn't that's not fair well we could make it stay that way so I spent the last three weeks listening to this other episode
 all too you would flight in the numbers it looked very Beth be never one of them
 I know it was like this hey she's got to be pretty darn good that you know that was the number two episode of
 twenty years you taught her not to find worth instead of that or anything about it oh my gosh
 it's so good yeah I think again I think Joe like you pointed out I love the content it's you know I've been putting out
 content for so long and it's hilarious I no longer do this and the early days I used to go oh my gosh this one is going to be big
 this information people are going to just love this and it's going to change their lives and then it gets like nothing
 and then I put something out that I'm like I think that's going to suck nobody's going to like that and then it becomes
 just one of the most amazing episodes I think what I love seeing is how much like you just said how much people want change
 the top episodes are people going I want to know how to be a better version of me and that is fantastic because our mission here
 is worship God by loving people and guiding individuals and organizations to greater perspective you know which forever people have told us you've changed my life and we're like no
 we got you to the right perspective you had to make the choice to change your own life right we helped you along the journey we got you the information we got you to that place
 but the whole purpose for us you know what is our mission what is our purpose for existence worship God love God love people
 right if we do those things then a lot of change happens and so I love this episode that we just did by going through all these and seeing how much people want their lives changed I think that's just powerful piece for me too
 so with all of that folks what we want you to think about as you're going into 2022 is what do you allowing to influence you know what are your influences
 what do you have on the schedule goal wise to create better purpose in your life you know what are the what are the
 challenges that you have in front of you and how are you going to face them how are you going to hit them right how are you going to allow those things how are you going to allow struggle and strain and stress and suffering
 to be a tool in your life so that you can become a better version of you
 so last thing I can ask is you guys have enjoyed these episodes help us reach more people share those things you know go go do a like
 go do a review right on the show so that we can help change more lives because that is that is our purpose for the show is to help a change as many
 as we can so as always we hope this is helped you today take this information change your leadership change your business
 change your life and join us on the next episode
 you
 (upbeat music)