 An intimate look at the motivation that drives my business, my leadership, as well as my team,
 and how you can adopt a similar approach in this new year. That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life,
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Hey folks, I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 We have a gorgeous day where we are. Sun is out right now, a little island which is very nice.
 On today's episode, we are going to explore what it means to have the heart of a shepherd.
 Now what I'm going to talk about is three major things. What that means?
 Why it's so important and how you can have that very heart. Now we talked about this concept on
 one of the recent one's day morning devotions that we have with our team and one of our team members
 mentioned afterwards, hey, this bleeds into everything that we do here. So should we talk about it?
 Well, yes, we should. So that is something that we have decided that we are going to
 discuss today. So what a shepherd does. Now it really does affect everything that we do here in.
 It should, since our name, "point main" is actually translated into the word "shepard." So what does
 that mean exactly? Now for us, the word "point main" is a Greek word that means a specific type of
 shepherd. It kind of shepherd that would love his flock. Heal his flock. Feed his flock. Leave the
 99 for the one that is lost. And that is our corporate name. That is what we do. If you look at our icon,
 you see two aspects of what we feel is our responsibility. What we're called to do. One is the shepherd's
 crook that represents that "point main" that's shepherding. And then the other is the arrow, which
 represents that us fighting for others, us helping others to, you know, that can't protect themselves
 or helping people to get to a place where they can protect themselves. So a great shepherd looks out
 for the sheep, a great shepherd protects the sheep. Now for us, that is something that we have done
 through helping people to get stronger, through helping people to get boundaries in life, to make
 smarter decisions, better decisions, decisions that bring more blessing in their life, more happiness
 to their life, more joy to their life. Guiding people and helping them to be able to make decisions that
 put them in a stronger place in life. So we don't actually do the work for the person.
 Instead, our job is to help them. Our job is to look out for them. Our job is to see the things
 that are affecting them in a negative way and God and direct them to great perspective. But then
 to encourage the flock to do the same, to actually do the work and make it happen. A great shepherd
 lifts up his sheep, rescues his sheep, heals his sheep. When you look at, so if you go to Israel,
 if you go to the Middle East and you go to where you see a lot of shepherds, what you will discover
 is that the land is not very flat. There's not a lot of flat land and wherever there is flat land,
 they take that land and they grow things in it as much as they possibly can. So it's funny. One of
 the aspects of knowing that Jesus was not born in December is in the Bible, it talks about how the
 sheep were in the fields. Well, the sheep are only in the fields in the Middle East and Israel
 twice a year. And that's after the two harvest. The rest of the time the sheep are not allowed in the fields.
 Instead, they walk on the paths on the side of the hills and the shepherds are guiding them to go
 find food in water. So what are those paths called? The paths of righteousness. And where are they
 leading them to? Well, for those of you who know Psalms and know where David talks about,
 he causes me to lie down in green pastures. That's actually not the translation. The translation is
 grassy pastures. There are no green pastures in Israel. There are toughs of grass and you have to
 lead your sheep to those places. Well, guess what? Because it's all rocky because it's difficult terrain,
 because only twice a year they get to go walk on the flat stuff. There are some of the time they're
 up on these hills and getting over rocks. There is this crook in a shepherd's crook, shepherd's staff,
 where they actually reach down and hook the smaller ones by the neck. I know this sounds cruel,
 but it's actually saving their lives and giving them life and lift them up to spots where they're not
 big enough to climb up to. A good shepherd, a great shepherd, helps the flock get to a place where
 there is sustenance, where there is food, where there is water, where there is the very life giving
 stuff that's going to take care of them. A great shepherd leads his sheep. He guides,
 he directs and I'm saying, he, he, sheep, shepherd, shepherd is a great shepherd leads their sheep.
 They guide them exactly where they need to go. They guide them in the directions that they need to go. They
 they keep them away from harm. They guide them away from areas that they might get stuck in or
 where predators might be. One of the things a shepherd in Israel would do is a lot of water is found
 in the bottom of canyons. They're called waddies back there, but places where they can take their sheep
 down, but they have to be very cautious to watch and make sure that there is an aflash flood. Because in
 that land, if it begins to rain, all the water runs into that water and they have to lead them into places
 to get sustenance and lead them back out of those very places to take care of them. A shepherd
 looks out for the sheep, lifts up the sheep, leads the sheep, protects them, rescues, heals, guides,
 directs. This is what we do with our team and our clients. It's in our DNA. And this whole
 shepherding thing doesn't just affect who we are and what we do, but we're seeing it replicated
 in others. How? We're seeing our clients after spending time with us, exhibiting the same heart
 in their businesses and their leadership and their teams and their families with their spouses,
 with their kids. And it's also the way that they treat their clients. There's a cascading effect that
 happens where one positive thing has a ripple effect. The way you treat others eventually affects
 the way that they treat others and so on. This is the way that movements begin. And this happens to be
 something that is others focused. Not focused on you, not focused on putting a person on a pedestal,
 not focused on making somebody a rock star. There's so many people that are focused on themselves
 on becoming famous or putting themselves on a pedestal or becoming a rock star. When you have the heart of a
 shepherd, you have a heart that takes care of others. There aren't any rock star shepherds, right?
 Except for Jesus. There aren't any shepherds that are put on a pedestal. In fact, in the first century,
 shepherd Dean was actually looked down upon. It wasn't thought of well, but what do we see
 from Jesus that he is the good shepherd? He refers to himself multiple times because of how important
 the role is. Now, like Zig Ziglar said, you can have everything in life you want. If you will just
 help other people get what they want. If you will help other people get what they end really in
 shepherding, it's helping other people get what they need, right? What's good for them? What helps them?
 What benefits them? This is a classic Zig quote. And notice how he gracefully shifts the focus
 from you to others. Being others focused is really at the heart of a shepherd. Now, before we go
 into our first break, let me take this opportunity to talk about how others have been taking on this
 heart of a shepherd that we're talking about and focusing on others. Something truly amazing happened
 to me this past year that caused me to sit down to pray and I may have even shed some tears over it.
 And I want to share it with you and invite you to be part of something very special. An anonymous donor,
 somebody who is a client and a friend in whose had their life changed by next-level life,
 is matching funds for people to go through next-level life up to $40,000.
 Somebody say, "Amen, this is someone who is helping people who cannot afford it." This is not for people
 who can't afford it. This is for the people who really need to get through this but can't afford to do it.
 That can't pay their way through. So if you've experienced next-level life, you know the impact this event
 can have. Imagine someone who may not have the funds to go through now being able to.
 In fact, our donor requested that this is the heart of an amazing, amazing human being. All these
 said was all I request is that at least one single mom be able to go through this scholarship. And as I
 shared with them, I'm pretty darn sure we're going to have considerably more than one that will make
 it through. That is going to happen. So here's how you can help. For us to take advantage of the
 scholarship match that he is put in place, we need others to come alongside our anonymous donor and give.
 Not to us, but to see into the very thing that we are doing to help other people change their lives.
 And by doing so, we are going to have a lot of folks come through who could not afford to make this happen.
 So if you feel led to do so, go to the next-level life scholarship page. It's crissacrido.com/scolarship.
 Now everything is laid out there. But if you have questions or would prefer to talk through this
 with somebody, feel free to reach out to Joe Forger at Joel@crislicardo.com. As you'll see on the page,
 we've created an application form that includes an essay for potential scholarship recipients to
 complete. For those essays, people will be selected in an awarded scholarships until the funds are exhausted.
 So on behalf of our team and those who will benefit from your generosity, I humbly say thank you.
 You're choosing to so into people and give them the hope and support they need to live a better
 life and change their family tree. So once again, go to crissacrido.com/scolarship to find out more.
 Now, when we come back, what makes having the heart of a shepherd so important and how you can
 incorporate it into your leadership, your business, and your team right after this.
 Hey, it's Joel Forger here. I'm the vice president of Leadership Development on Crissac Team.
 And I oversee our next-level mastermind business coaching program. Most business owners and leaders
 lack a clear path to succeed in business. They question whether they're making the right
 decisions if they're focusing on the right things to really grow their business. If this is you,
 you need to coach in your life. Coaches help you make better decisions, navigate uncertainty,
 lead more effectively, and grow your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue
 and an average of 138% increase in net profit and regain hours of time. Our clients stay in the
 program for three and a half years simply because of the results they get. So if you're ready to run your
 business at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting, then visit crissacurdow.com/mastermind.
 Again, crissacurdow.com/mastermind today.
 So like we were talking about before the break, we're not just in the business of growing and developing
 leaders. It goes way beyond that. We want to see certain kinds of leaders. We want to see
 servant leaders. We want to see shepherds. And one of those time-tested built to last Jim Collins
 principles is that you're not always going to be around. Think about it. As a leader, you have to
 invest yourself in others and reproduce in them the kind of leader that you want them to be so that
 they will lead like you want them to when you're not here. That's the key. You must duplicate yourself.
 If you don't duplicate you and one of the big fears that people have is as well if I go teach
 somebody else to do all the things that I do then I won't be needed. That is so incredibly wrong.
 I've been teaching people for decades, leaders, for decades how to get stuff off of their plate
 so they can rise up and be prepared for the next level. There's never a time a leader gets stuff off of
 their plate and there's not room for growth. There's not a place for them to grow too, right? So we have
 this bad concept that if I do duplicate myself and someone else, what's going to happen to me?
 What's going to happen is you're going to be needed at a much higher level. So three things you need to
 know, you've got to find the right people. You're not going to be able to lead and shepherd people who don't
 want to be shepherded. Let me say, if you are finding islands, I've hired two islands in my life and
 buy an island. What I mean is that person who is only focused on them, only cares about them,
 couldn't care less about anybody else, never makes a good team member no matter how long you work with them.
 If you're hiring islands, then I can promise you you're going to spend an incredible amount of
 your time trying to lead that person, which will ultimately probably end up in failure. Instead, you need to
 find people who want growth, who desire growth, who desire to be better, who desire to learn.
 If you can find those people, then you can do the next thing which is poor into those people.
 The more you spend time growing them, you've heard me say it a bajillion times. It's your job
 as a leader to make your team successful, not the other way around. The more you will spend time growing them
 and making them successful, then buy default. You will become successful. Oh, Chris, if I do all that,
 how could I possibly spend all that time with my team members? I don't have that kind of time. Well,
 then you are stuck in the leadership crazy cycle and you should not be there as a leader and you've
 got to get stuff off of your plate so that you can lead people, not do tasks. Leaders should not be
 bogged down in doing tasks. You have team members to do those tasks. Your job is to make those
 team members great. So you've got to pour into them. If you do not have the time, there's already
 problem number one. So you've got to discover how to kill the leadership crazy cycle. Number three is
 you've got to replicate the right heart in them. It's not just enough to teach somebody how to do something.
 It's not just enough to teach them how to do a task. If you're going to be a great shepherd,
 then one of the things that you need to do is help them to have the same heart as you. Now,
 no ifsans are but about it. Whenever you see a leader's true character, you pretty much nail that to your
 mind and go, this is who this person is. So if I see somebody who's trying to teach me something,
 and then I see their actions do not align with that very teaching. Guess what? That's not somebody
 I want to learn from. So you also have to understand that the very things you're teaching
 have to align with your character. If there are things if you're wanting somebody to be a great shepherd as well,
 then you've got to model what that shepherding looks like. You've got to replicate in them the right
 heart. How do I love people? How do I take care of people? How do I handle difficult situations,
 difficult conversations? How do I lead people out of gossip and complaining? And, you know,
 whatever the negative stuff is, negative self talk. How do I do these things? How do I get them away from the
 things that are keeping them from having a right heart? Those are things that you have to do if you're
 going to shepherd your people well. So this is incredibly important because without this kind of
 shepherds heart or mindset, your leadership efforts might ultimately be wasted and you're not going to
 see the lasting fruit that you want. If you do not have that heart, then what you're going to get is the very
 thing that you teach through the heart that you have. I'm sure that makes sense, right? If your mind
 said is, I just want them to do a task, then guess what you're going to get and you're going to experience
 from that person, a person who does tasks. If your heart is, I desire them to be a shepherd like me to
 have these same qualities and characteristics, but you do not model that. You do not teach that,
 then you can't be surprised when you do not get that. So let's go back to you not being around all the time.
 It has everything to do with replicating yourself in the others because you're not always going to
 be here. Sorry about that, but it's true, right? You're not always going to be around, but it's also
 so that you can expand your impact. The more you duplicate you, the more you lead guy direct,
 he'll replicate you, duplicate you and somebody else, the greater impact you can have.
 Because now you have somebody else who's able to do the same thing or at least aspects of the stuff that you've
 been able to do. Now you're increasing your your ability to impact. The second thing is you can reach
 more people because now again, this is obvious, right? We now have more people doing the things that you're
 doing and impacting other folks. So now you can reach more people. And the third thing is you get more
 done. It is the craziest thing to me when I'm trying to help leaders or business owners to understand
 if you duplicate you, your your worth is going to increase to your company because you're going to be
 need out of higher level and then you get to do more stuff because you have more people accomplishing
 the things that you've been doing yourself. This horrible concept of I can't delegate to people because
 nobody doesn't like me and I've always got to take it back. Nope, you just not been taught how to delegate
 properly. When you delegate properly and you duplicate yourself properly, your business or your
 team is able to accomplish more. So let me ask you some tough questions. I really want you to think about
 is it possible that you're currently replicating self-centered, self-absorbed or selfish leaders?
 If so, well then what does that mean? That's what you're modeling and is that who you really want
 leading things or running things when you're not around? Is that who you want dealing with your clients?
 Right? Somebody who's so self-absorbed and so self-focused. This is really a core concept of scaling
 anything. You have to look at what you're replicating in others and that's going to point to
 exactly what's going to happen to your business, your team, your whatever your family in the future.
 If what you see as far as your replication is that it is not something that's going to be healthy,
 it's not something that's going to be good, it's not something that's going to be quality.
 Well then that's time to do something about that. We've got the change that. So when we come back,
 what does it take to incorporate a ship or it's hard into your leadership, your business,
 and your team, right up to this? Hey leaders, this is Joel Fortner, VP,
 Leadership Development, a Crystal Cardo's company. I have some questions for you. Do you as a
 leader feel like you are caught up in a crazy cycle of stress and task that never ends week to week?
 Do you ever have to deal with tough conversations with team members and you sit at home the next
 day, the night before worried about how's it going to go? What am I going to say? What are they going to say?
 Can I think fast enough on my feet? Is it going to be a total failure? Are you experiencing
 culture problems or that stuff that just breaks down trust and unity on your team? Well if you,
 if you can relate to any of this, this is a pretty typical leadership story in situation.
 Here's the thing though, it doesn't have to be that way and we can help you solve these things.
 We can help you become the leader that solves these problems and leads 13 to greater success.
 I want to introduce you to the key leaders program. This is an ongoing leadership development program
 that gives you the less-entrak, coaching and accountability you need to become the leader you can
 become to actually implement what you're actually learning in this program. Things fall apart without
 great leadership and intentionality. If you want to solve the problems that are holding you back from being a great
 leader, we can help you with this program, get in touch with Joel at ChrisLecordo.com.
 What we're really talking about today in this concept of having this shepherd's heart is
 replicating leaders who love God, who love people. They are people who have a heart for other people
 meaning that they care about other people. They are not just in it for themselves. They're selfish
 gain. I have hired two of those people in my what G's 30 years of leading people and I can tell you
 those are our regrets. I need to actually take that back. It taught me a lot. It taught me exactly
 what to look for, what not to hire, what to hire, how to be careful for my team, how to look out for
 my flock as a shepherd. Two times I've let in quasi wolves into the sheepfold. People that just affected
 my team in a horribly terrible negative ways. That was a mistake that I have not duplicated in a very,
 very long time. It's something I learned. Do not hire selfish people. Do not hire people that are
 only in it for their selfish gain. Second thing is about helping people to care about other people is
 they're truly embodying and trying to make other people successful. So while that is your role,
 what happens when you help other people to see that? What happens when you help somebody to recognize
 you care about them and make them successful and you're not losing anything because of it.
 That it's not affecting you negatively. What does it teach them? It's the same thing we tell parents
 as they come through next level of life. If you take responsibility for the failures that you've had,
 that your kids have already seen and you come in and say, I screwed that up. I messed that up. I did
 that and I'm taking responsibility and want to apologize for this. I hope you can forgive me, but I'm
 going to work on me and change that. Then what happens is your kid doesn't stand back and go,
 yep, Saka, I hate you, I'm out, peace out, I'm gone. Instead what they do is they're heart breaks
 for their parent and they realize it's okay to be fallible. The child receives the parent
 with, you know, for taking responsibility for the mistake and it's like, I love you absolutely,
 it draws them closer and to the parent. Well, it's guess what, it's the same thing with team members.
 If as you're teaching them how to be successful, they see a phenomenal heart that cares about them.
 What are they going to do? How are they going to respond? They're going to turn around and try and
 make other people. When they feel confident that they're not going to lose their role, you know,
 if I help somebody be successful, then I don't have a job. No, no, no, no. When they see that you
 aren't afraid of that, they won't be afraid of that. Also, they're not just trying to get ahead. They're not
 trying to live a leadership title because it gives them more money or gives them power and control, right?
 When you help them have the heart of a shepherd because you have the heart of the shepherd,
 then what happens is this power, control, money, position, fame, pedestals, none of that stuff matters.
 None of that stuff is important. The key is that this all starts with you as the leader,
 because that's who's going to be replicated in the process. As we grow our team, as we teach our
 team, as we delegate to our team, it's us that's getting replicated. So leader, take a good look at
 yourself right now. This is the team that you're creating. When you see, if you were to go to the mirror and
 take a look at your characteristics, your heart, your qualities, the things that you're doing to
 lead others, that's the team you're creating. That's what you're duplicating.
 And the more positive you are with your character, qualities, your heart, all of that, the more that
 will transfer into your team. Think about this from a root system perspective. Your leadership today
 is largely the result of those who train, developed, important to you along your leadership growth journey
 for good or for bad. Now, those of us who have been had bad leaders and have had good leaders
 and great leaders, and have chosen to constantly make ourselves better. But there's a whole lot of folks who
 have had nothing but crappellators, nothing but bad leaders. It's up to you to make the decision to
 become a great leader. Now, you've probably already had to unlearn some of that bad training that you've
 had. I completely get that. My business is based on helping people do things right because of
 so many things that I've done wrong or so many things that I've learned from other people by having
 watched them do things wrong. So there's probably a lot of stuff you've had to unlearn. That's
 great. That's good. Let's get that out. But what we need to learn is how do we be this great example.
 So I want to leave you with a few examples of great shepherds, biblical shepherds who give us a
 great example of good, healthy and godly leadership in the Bible. Moses. Now, Moses was a shepherd of
 both sheep and of people. He had to lead a large bunch of unruly folks through the wilderness. But one of
 his standout qualities was, "Mignus." It was power under control. It was a lack of personal ego.
 I'm not saying that Moses didn't have struggles. What I'm saying is, is when Moses was in the position
 to shepherd millions of people, we see somebody who was very humble. We see somebody who was very
 meek. We see somebody who also took a stand for the right things. We stood up for the right things.
 We stood up two people for the right things. He also mentored the next great leader of the next generation
 that led after him, Joshua. Joshua was one of the most courageous leaders in the biblical narrative.
 This was a great example of a great shepherd continuously pouring into others to take care of others.
 This is one of our greatest Bible heroes. This is one of our biblical characters that we look up to
 because he was so amazing in how he followed God and God's will and we see that God blessed him immensely.
 Look at a person like the Apostle Paul. Wow. Talk about someone who shunned the idea of pride
 and vain boasting and instead leaned heavily on God's grace to see him through. It doesn't mean that
 he didn't ever struggle with those things. It means that he fought against it like crazy. He met
 a young shepherd, a man named Timothy who led one of the great early church communities at FSS.
 And at an incredibly young age because he could receive instruction. That was him pouring in
 to Timothy, helping him to become that person he needed to be. Now the greatest example of course is
 Jesus. The great shepherd and the good shepherd who laid down his life for his flock, for his sheep.
 There's no greater example of selfless service and selfless love, right? He personally mentored Peter
 teaching him to point may know to feed and care for the flock of God to really love the people that
 God loves. So what does it mean to have the heart of a shepherd? The first thing is you have to have a great
 purpose for being a shepherd. For those of us that are believers this should not be difficult to
 understand. As we take a look at the great shepherd, the good shepherd, we take a look at Yeshua Jesus.
 What we see is one who served his father's will. We often say, "Oh Jesus is my came to save me."
 Actually, he came to follow his father's will, which was to go to the cross which in turn saved us.
 He came to follow his father's will and what did he tell us to do? Follow our father's will.
 So one thing we have to do if we're going to be a great shepherd is we have to have a purpose that is greater than ourselves.
 And that's helping other people to become better versions. We have to lack pride and ego.
 We have to not care about trying to make us great. We have to not care about always being right. We have to not care
 about people doing things exactly the way that we would do it because we're the only ones with the right answer.
 We have to not care about how it makes us look and we definitely need to not care about man's opinion of us,
 unless it's constructive and quality good. Christ like input, then we need to not lose our worth to the judgment of others.
 We also need to depend on grace. This is a tough one. A lot of folks will say that they depend on grace.
 And grace is all I need in grace is what I have and not really realize how much they're not depending on grace.
 It is grace that we have life. It is grace that we have the opportunity to receive salvation and have eternity with God.
 It is grace that we do not get every single punishment that we deserve. It's grace that loves us.
 It's grace that heals us. It's grace that comes after us in pursuit us. God is the pursuer of our hearts.
 Not just our souls, but our hearts. We need to depend on grace. We also need to be receptive to instruction.
 Now this is a tough one for a lot of people and it's something that believe it or not we've gotten a mixed message over the years in a Western Christian culture.
 There is a great Hebrew word called schma and it means to hear and obey.
 Not just to hear. It's funny when we look at translations of our bibles a lot of the time often we see the word "listen."
 Especially in the Old Testament we see the word "listen" and really what is doing is it's taking out
 half of that because the original Hebrew word most of the time in those situations is schma.
 Which doesn't mean "listen." It means "listen" and "obey." Listen and do something about it.
 We need to, if we're going to be a good shepherd we need to be able to receive instruction.
 We need to be able to obey the instruction that we've been given if it's good quality, godly, healthy instruction.
 We need to be able to do so. We also need to be selfless in service and in sacrifice. Now,
 we know love as an emotion as feelings as things that we experience. But when you look at the biblical definition of love,
 over and over and over again, we see the Bible defining love as selfless sacrifice.
 If you truly love, god, then you must selflessly sacrifice. If you truly love your family,
 if you truly love your team, people, then to truly love is to selflessly serve and to selflessly
 sacrifice. Another thing we need to do to be good shepherds is to feed and care for others.
 You can't just tell somebody what they should do and then not care about how they are taking care of
 and how they're if I know I am not in any way shape or form telling you that you need to go out and
 cow down to the victims and go and make people entitled. That's not what I'm saying at all.
 And there are times that we will do everything we can to help somebody, but we are not responsible for
 get ready for it. They're change. If they don't change, that's not how to us. That responsibility is
 up to God. The responsibility for us is that we feed them, that we care for them. But
 ultimately they don't change and move in the right direction or better direction. That's on them. But
 you can't bug out after one try. You've got to actually lean in and try the best that you can.
 And if it doesn't work, it doesn't work. Guess what? You may not be the last step in the process for them.
 And finally, to be a good shepherd, you have to really actually love other people.
 You do have to care emotionally, selflessly, sacrificing every aspect of it. If you're going to be a good
 shepherd, you have to really love others. So these are the things to do to have the heart of a shepherd.
 It doesn't mean that you have to have a big flock. It can just be one. You could shepherd one.
 Start by shepherding you. Start by shepherding how you live. Love, serve.
 And then take a look at those that you have influence over and start shepherding them as well
 and teaching them to be shepherds as well. Well folks, hopefully this has helped you today.
 As always, if you want you to take this information, change your leadership, change your business,
 change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 (upbeat music)
 [BLANK_AUDIO]