 We talk about worth all the time on the show.
 A team member recently remarked worth bleeds into everything that we do and say here.
 But why is worth so important?
 Why does worth really matter?
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show,
 where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 If you've listened to this podcast for any amount of time, then you know that we talk a lot about worth.
 A lot about root system, a lot about surface level responses.
 Worth is a core discussion around here and why is that? What is worth really well?
 Let's gain a little bit of perspective on the word itself.
 Worth is the value that's assigned to or associated with a person or a thing.
 So that's not very difficult.
 If we look at the worth of a car that's you know, we're able to say,
 "Hey, this car is worth $20,000."
 If we take a look at the worth of, I don't know, a piece of jewelry.
 That's a $100 piece of jewelry.
 Now, what you think something you own is worth and what somebody's willing to pay for,
 it could be two completely different things.
 Now, we're talking about things, but what about people?
 Well, we'll get into some of that a little bit later.
 Another piece of perspective on the word itself is it's how other people judge whether or not something or someone is deserving.
 Observing of being a steamed or enjoyed.
 Right? So if I'm looking at a person and I'm trying to decide whether or not I should enjoy this person or this person's deserving of my esteem of them,
 that's another way people look at worth.
 The third way is it's how folks appreciate another person or thing.
 It appreciate means to assign a level of value or respect to an object or a person.
 So, well, I'm pretty much open up a whole kind of worms are for many of you didn't I?
 Because some of you are looking at that going gosh, I've never thought about it that way and some of you are like,
 that's all I've ever experienced from other people.
 Well, let's simplify things a bit.
 We're talking about the value assigned to any object.
 But, where does that value or worth come from? Well, if you've followed me at all over the years, you already know the answer to that question.
 Only God can assign value or give worth to a human being to you yourself.
 Not me, not anybody else.
 Anybody else assigning value to you is only the value that you have to them.
 It's like that car, right?
 If I own the car, I get to say what its value is to me.
 But if I find the one who's purchasing the car, then the value is what I'm willing to pay for it.
 Well, when we come back, the lies we tell ourselves, why truth really matters,
 and why your worth is always on the line.
 That is right up to this.
 Freedom, it's so powerful.
 I don't review the name and I'm all renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So, I was very comfortable there.
 That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it.
 It's going to be hard, but it's going to be even better on the other side.
 For me, it was just very refreshing.
 And I want to say life, give it to me, it really was.
 I would go to the next level of life again and probably again and probably again because it's so powerful.
 I want you to ask yourself a question, could you hear the sense of hope and freedom and their voices just then?
 I want you to know that could be you.
 Look, it's easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns and unhealthy relationships.
 It's going to take some work, but yes, there is hope for you.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation, this same kind of self-awareness and freedom that they have,
 or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like for you, then head on over to Chrissacordo.com/nextlevellife.
 Alright, let's talk about lies and let's talk about truths.
 The truth and the lies that we tell ourselves, or those we choose to accept from outside sources, these are two great contributors to our worth or our lack of worth.
 So let me say that again, so it can sink in.
 The truth and the lies that we tell ourselves or once again, the lies that we accept from outside sources or even truths,
 are two of the greatest contributors to our worth or our lack of worth.
 So let me put it another way.
 What you've accepted about who and what you are, no matter where the information came from, is one of the biggest factors in how you see yourself.
 Here's some of the lies we can tend to receive and believe that effect our perceived worth.
 I'm not valuable.
 I don't matter.
 Nobody sees me for who I truly am.
 Nobody understands me, my situation.
 I'm not abol or capable.
 I'm not worthy.
 I'm not good enough.
 I don't have what it takes.
 I'll never be better or improve.
 I'm a failure.
 I'm not deserving of a great job of a great spouse of a great family.
 Right?
 Those are just believe it or not.
 A tiny handful of lies that we tell ourselves.
 There are so many more.
 Notice how so many of the lies we tend to tell ourselves about our own self worth.
 Circle around a few basic root system concepts.
 The first one is my performance.
 You know, am I a success, am I a failure?
 What am I telling myself?
 How I perform is going to tell you.
 If I fail at something, then I am a failure as opposed to I screwed something up and I should be able to learn from this thing.
 Right?
 It's a very difficult piece for us to accept sometimes when we fail.
 And so many people, I cannot tell you how many people.
 And it was a big part of my life for a large chunk of my life.
 And still stuff that I have to deal with.
 But so many people have a great fear of failure.
 Right?
 So many people base their worth on their performance.
 Number two basic root system concept of how the lies, how we tell ourselves these lies.
 Number two is how I see myself.
 So if I see myself with self worth, then the lies are probably not going to be heavy duty.
 They're probably not going to be ones that are really self destructive.
 But if I see myself with self hate, self-loathing, then crap.
 All of those lies are going to be how terrible I am.
 How I'm not good enough.
 I'm not worthy enough, right?
 All of those lies are going to tell me that my where I currently am and how I see myself with self-loathing,
 self-hating.
 Everything is going to be pointing at how horrible I am.
 Because it's going to add to how much I hate myself.
 I cannot tell you how many conversations I've had with folks that continue to beat themselves up in situations that are not even about them.
 Maybe it's you.
 How many times do you have a situation pop up or something fails or somebody struggling with something or somebody is experiencing something difficult?
 I remember in the early days in my relationship with my wife.
 When if I was struggling with something, if I was failing with something, if I had a frustration, how quickly she could take that opportunity.
 She could take that on as it's her fault.
 That in her past so much of somebody else's failure and this is exactly how I experienced a large portion of my life as well.
 So I know exactly where it's coming from. It was easy for me to spot it.
 That so much of her life was based on if somebody else was unhappy, struggling, frustrated, whatever that's somehow it's her fault.
 Many of you out there listening to this have experienced that.
 Where you just have it in your mind that if somebody else is struggling, it's got to be your fault somehow so that when you do see somebody struggling or somebody you care about or somebody you're putting a lot of worth in your mind, put maybe even putting them on a pedestal.
 One day struggle immediately becomes your issue.
 Immediately becomes your fault.
 One of the things to understand about the lies you tell yourself, the lies I tell myself is so much of them are based on how I see myself.
 Number three basic root system concept of how these lies are built around is how I think others see me or what they think of me. This is massive.
 This is a big piece. Why? Because we are wanting men to approve of us.
 We are wanting human beings to approve of us. We want human beings to think we're amazing.
 We want human beings to think that we're smart, we're funny, we're pretty, we're handsome, we're talented, whatever.
 And so a lot of the lies we tell ourselves are based around what we convince ourselves of how other people see us.
 They think I'm stupid. They think I'm not good enough. They think I'm not worthy enough.
 Fill in the blank. We've all done it. We've all got those ways of telling ourselves, "Oh man, I screwed that thing up. I bet everybody thinks I'm stupid."
 We could do this all day long. We don't have time to go through all the lies.
 But what happens when you start stacking those lies up over and over and over again, over just one day's time?
 All the lies in one day.
 If you look at all the lies you tell yourself, and some of you have to actually realize that you do tell yourself lies. It's a small percentage of people, most people recognize pretty quickly, yep, I do tell myself lies.
 But there's a small percentage of people that don't actually understand that. When I do actually realize that I tell myself lies and I sit there and think about how many it is in a day.
 When I think of how, just a portion of them, right? How much time is spent lying to yourself?
 Based on how other people see you, how much time is spent lying to yourself? What do you think those lies are doing? So take all those lies.
 Take those lies and actually consider saying them to a human being. Consider saying them to somebody you love or somebody you care about.
 You're not worthy. You're not good enough. You're never going to be good enough. You're a failure. You always will be.
 I want you to think about saying those lies to somebody for, I don't know, let's just say 15 minutes every day.
 How do you think those 15 minutes are going to affect that person? How much damage do you think that's going to cause?
 If they receive it, right? Now, some of us or a lot of us have received a lot of that very input.
 You didn't do this well enough. You're not good enough here. You failed here. I'm not happy it's your fault.
 Some of us have received a lot of that input and think about how it's affected us.
 But here's what I want you to do. I just want you to think about this, especially you parents. Think about saying the lies that you tell yourself to your kids all day long.
 As much as you tell you, just kind of in half. Take half the lies you tell you to yourself and actually transfer to your kids. Transfer to somebody you care about.
 What do you see happening to that person? How do you think that's going to affect that person?
 Is there anybody out there listening to the show that is going, "No, I don't think it'll be a big deal. I don't think it'll be a problem."
 Everybody would say, "Man, that would really devastate. That would really destroy. That would really hurt them. That would really affect them."
 Well, folks listening to this very episode, how do you think you're affecting you?
 How do you think those lies that you tell yourself is affecting you? How do you think it's affecting your view of you?
 How do you think it's affecting your positivity, your belief in you, your encouraging yourself?
 How do you think it's affecting the way that you respond to other people? How do you think it's affecting the way that you look at other people?
 What is the value that you are actually putting on yourself when you spend as much time as you do lying to you now?
 I said 15 minutes, but let's be honest. How much of your day is it?
 Few hours? Mixed in little pieces here and there, little five minutes here, little two minutes there, little 30 seconds here.
 How much of our day is actually filled with us lying to ourselves? It's considered really more than 15 minutes. Would you agree?
 Well, if 15 minutes would affect somebody else in a horrible way on a daily basis, then how much are you affecting you?
 Again, we could spend all day on this when we come back and we'll dive into why worth matters, what's at stake, and what you can do about it. That's coming up right after this.
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having a lack of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life, it all starts with having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with, whether it be at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to Chrissacrittal.com/store and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your team to date. Get it for your family members.
 Today, as you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate. Go to Chrissacrittal.com/store today.
 So why does worth really matter? Let's unpack that now. So worth is woven into our every decision making. Our decision making process has worth through all of it. Think about it.
 Even simple decisions, right? But let's take a look at the big decisions. If you're going to take on a specific type of career and I good enough, can I make it happen? Can I be successful?
 Am I going to fail at it? Look at leaders and business owners. Look at how many decisions are impacted daily on whether or not you're going to fail.
 Team members, same thing, right? How many things do you avoid because of your failure? Because if you do fail at that thing, then what does that say about your worth?
 So what is your decision making process? It's actually not on whether or not it's a right decision, a good decision, an excellent decision, a quality decision. What is it based on? What if I screw up? What if people see this?
 What are people going to think about me when they see that I did fail? Our decision making, unfortunately, becomes emotionally handcuffed to our worth, or at least the worth we believe we have, the worth we tell ourselves.
 It's also part of our composite worldview and perspective. So instead of gaining quality perspective often, when we are stuck in this place of lying to ourselves, telling ourselves we aren't that worthy, telling ourselves that we're not good enough, then what tends to happen is our perspective gets molded by it.
 Think about it. Do you have quality objective perspective? Can I say that? When you're lying to yourself, when you're telling yourself you're not good enough, well, sure Chris, if I'm looking at something that has nothing to do with me, well, okay, you win there.
 What about everything that does have something to do with you? If you're perspective is that you're not good enough. One of the things that breaks my heart, the very first time, this brought tears to my eyes. This was probably about seven, eight years ago.
 The first time I heard somebody say, "Well, I'm glad my spouse got to go through next level of life," but, you know, I mean, I'm, that's too much for me, and I'm like, "What do you mean too much for you?" Well, that's not for me. What do you mean it's not for you?
 I'm, I'm not worthy to go through something like that. Oh, my gosh, my heart broke. Folks, there's some of you out there right now that do not participate in some of the things that we do because you lie to yourself and tell yourself, you're not worthy of it.
 Do you understand why we do this show in the first place? Do you understand our hearts here? Our hearts are to change your lives to give you as much perspective as possible for you to make great decisions so that you can change your life.
 Because every single one of you, every human being is worth it. There isn't anybody out there that's not worth getting life change, getting godly perspective.
 Not a one, but I can tell you it breaks my heart when somebody is convincing themselves or somebody else in their life. Maybe they have a very controlling or abusive spouse.
 That's convincing them that they aren't worth it. They're not worthy of such a life-changing course.
 Man, it just breaks my heart to know that there are people out there. I've heard it more than once, unfortunately, that people believe that that's what they tell themselves.
 It's not a matter of ego to say that you're worth a program that's tough and difficult, but gets you to life change.
 Nobody coming into, nobody that I know of in the 450 odds events that we've done is coming going, "Man, I'm just totally arrogant about this and I'm looking forward to how great I'm going to find out that I am."
 Nobody comes into the next level of life with that, right?
 Instead, everybody comes in with a level of humility going, "I know this is going to hurt, but I know the outcome is going to be way better than what I've been experiencing."
 So, again, some folks come in and they have no problems in life and they walk out going, "Oh my gosh, my life is going to be better."
 The point that I'm making is that if your view is that you're not worth life change, you're not worth somebody spending time helping you gain quality perspective.
 Then what are you ever going to do to change that?
 Let's say it was true, which obviously it is a lie from the Patelle, but let's say it was true.
 Let's say you're not worth some program that's going to help you become better.
 Then what are you going to do to ever get yourself in a place when you're worthy enough to be able to experience something like that?
 Folks, let's talk about God's love for a second.
 How many people believe that they have to get completely cleaned up, change all the bad decisions they've made,
 change all, you know, get rid of all the crap, get right with true themselves up, get right with God before they come to God.
 Where do you ever, ever, ever, ever see God saying that?
 Where do you ever see in any of God's actions if you actually spend any decent amount of time just looking at his word and I'm not talking about getting bad teaching from bad teachers?
 But look at the actual steps that God has taken to win your heart, he is the ultimate pursuer of your heart.
 When does he ever say, "Go clean yourself up first."
 How did they mock Jesus? He sits with sinners and tax collectors and prostitutes.
 Why was he doing that? Not because he wanted to protect him and their crap, but because he was wanting to meet them where they were to say,
 "You can have a better life, you can have eternity, if you follow what I tell you to do, things can change for you."
 He didn't say, "Hey, I'm going to promise you a happy, go lucky life."
 So it's actually tougher to follow him than it is to not follow him.
 What he did promise is a phenomenal eternity.
 And they didn't have to get cleaned up to make the decision they had to trust in him, have faith in him, to make the decision the cleaning came after.
 It's another lie that we tell Christians is that all you have to do is receive Jesus, and that's it. He took everything away. No, he did not.
 Nope, your faith is what gets you into heaven, but what does he say?
 Those who love me follow my commands, do what I tell them to do.
 That's the cleaning up part. You're not to come to him, clean. You can come to him as dirty as you ever have been.
 His love for you, his desire for you is greater than anything you screwed up.
 I can promise you that. But here's his goal. He loves you right where you are. He just doesn't want to keep you there.
 He just doesn't want you to stay there.
 So if your worth is that you suck and you're not even worth the love of God, much less the love of man, what's ever going to change?
 You have to start making decisions that if God thinks you're worthy in every single human being on this planet does not, it does not matter.
 Because we're all created beings. He's the only creator.
 Another reason why worth really matters is it's our value center.
 It's the thing that informs us, it's the thing that drives our reactions, our responses.
 When we recognize our worth or lack of worth, then our reactions, our responses are usually based on that.
 If I feel like I'm not good enough, I'm going to respond like I'm not good enough. If I feel like I'm not worthy enough, I'm going to respond like I'm not worthy enough.
 And keep in mind, the opposite of this is not great ego, right? Not great arrogance.
 The confidence that I carry in my worth is not in my abilities.
 I can do some things. I can move some things around. I can push some things around. I've been able to accomplish a lot of stuff in my life.
 But the amount that I've accomplished in my life compared to what God has accomplished in my life is ridiculously small.
 It is incredibly small. The stuff that God has done in my life has blown away any of my personal attempts.
 And here's the funny thing. Usually the things when I'm trying to do an on my own, or I'm taking control, taking authority in a situation, it sucks because I only have the power of me.
 But when I submit it all to God, I have his power.
 When he does what he's going to do, and I trust it and follow it, then my reactions, my responses are based on his view of my worth, not my view of my worth.
 It also largely determines what we try to control and/or let go of.
 I have a lot of people we have so much going on right now.
 We have a lot going on with the point main group. We have a lot going on with the ridge, which is the extension of,
 it's the future vision of where we are going with this business, expanding it, growing it, and helping people have even greater life change, and even deeper life change.
 And the stuff that we do now is powerful.
 It's all God focused and yes, there are plenty people who come through that are not believers, but it's powerful stuff. It's life changing stuff, right?
 But we feel like God is saying it's time for more, it's time for additional stuff, right?
 When I try to control stuff, here's what I've learned in life, and guys, this is taking me decades, but praise God, I'm working in submitting, being submissive.
 I have discovered that when I try to control things, in other words, I take it back from God. If you go back to what is original sin, original sin is not trusting that God had our best interest at heart,
 and believing that he was holding out.
 That's what original sin was when you go back to the garden, it was believing that God was holding out, that there was better things to be had, and if they just took control, then they could become just like God.
 It's just not trusting God. Praise God, he's been working on me for a long time, and I've asked for it, and a lot of it's been painful, but praise God, he's been working on me to trust him, to give that control, to not control.
 To look at the things that I can do and go, "Well, I can do this, this is diligence, I can keep moving things forward, I can keep doing the things that I feel like God's telling you to." But the other area that's not working out, or the other area that's not going the way that I want it to, which is not going as fast as I want it to, I can definitely take control right now and make things happen.
 But here's what I've discovered. Let me rephrase that. Here's what God has shown me by smacking me upside the head. Every time I go, you know what?
 I can control that, but instead, I'm not going to sit on my hands, I'm not going to put my feet up and sink them by a. I'm going to keep moving forward with the things that God's telling me to, but instead of me taking control and making it happen, I'm going to put it back in his hands.
 He's the one who can control it. He's the one who can make better decisions.
 Here's the amazing thing when you have the patience and the faith to put it back in God's control.
 It always comes out better than it would have been had I controlled it. Now, there's a lot of business owners and leaders out there right now that are hearing this and going,
 "I hear you, Chris, but I can move things, yes, you can."
 But every time I don't take control, the outcome of me not being selfish, me not being self-centered, self-focused,
 egotistical, the outcome is better than the outcome would have been had I grabbed the reins.
 Let me say that again, I hope that you can get this.
 The outcome, one I have faith in the king of the universe, the outcome is way better than had I grabbed control and forced something to happen, made something happen.
 So I hope that you're getting it. It also has a lot of bearing on our mental and emotional health.
 Let's go back to what I was saying.
 If 15 minutes a day of telling somebody horrible lies is going to have a big impact.
 Lindsey Sterling, I don't know how many Lindsey Sterling fans there are out there.
 But just a phenomenal musician. She did a concert years ago where she used to show it.
 And the study I believe is from a Japanese scientist that could be wrong, probably messing this up.
 But the scientist took water and would either speak positively to it or negatively to it.
 And then immediately flash freeze the water. Now I'm cutting this down.
 There's a huge study on this thing and we'll put it in the notes of what that study was and maybe even some pictures.
 Every single time he spoke positively to the water.
 The crystals that formed were dropped at gorgeous.
 So Lindsey Sterling is playing her concert and she tells the story and she's throwing up these slides, these pictures as she's playing this song.
 Every time the water is frozen where it's been spoken to positively, it's dropped at gorgeous.
 But the times that the water is spoken to and horrible things are discussed. Negative tones, negative things, negative words.
 There's all these different phrases that they would use.
 Hate Hitler was one of them. Cancer. I mean they would just say all these negative things to the water than flash freeze it.
 Every time the water was disgusting. The crystals were brown. They were not, they didn't have great form to them.
 They were ugly. It's what they were.
 I don't know if you've recognized this but most of your body is made up of water.
 Think about what's happening. The more you tell yourself negative, horrible things.
 Ladies out there, I want you to go get this book. It's a book called "Captivating" by John and Stacey Eldridge.
 It's one that we happen to give away during next level of life and it is one that praise God has had a massive impact on my life.
 We should have those guys on at some point.
 I want you to go and read this book "Captivating". I want you to see how much you align with the things that are explained and how you see you.
 The choices that you will make men listen to me. I know as a man if a wife brings home a book and marriage book and says,
 "We should go through this that all you hear is, here's what's wrong with you. You should read this book.
 Get that book for your wife. Write a nice little note on it telling you how much you love her.
 By the way, it wouldn't be a bad thing for you to go through and read it to understand how she sees herself.
 So many ways when it comes to work.
 Keep in mind, all that negativity is having an effect on you mentally and emotionally.
 It also influences how we treat ourselves as well as other people. So we've talked all about how we treat ourselves.
 Well, really think about it. If you feel like you suck, how do you treat other people?
 If you're somebody who can't handle being out of control, then what do you do with other people? You try to always try to control situations or people all the time.
 If you feel like you're failing and you're doing something bad, wrong, it's going to reflect on you a horrible way.
 And then what do you tend to do with a tack on the people blame other people?
 Blime shift, guilt, all of that. It also plays a big role in how we allow others to treat us and where we put our boundaries. Now listen.
 For the first half of my life, I did not have good quality boundaries because I felt like I was supposed to be run over.
 I was a people-pleaser, I was incredibly submissive.
 I even when I was teaching other people in the early days how to solve things I wasn't seeing how much it was affecting me and happening to me.
 I convinced myself that I was not worthy of having a backbone. That I was not worthy of standing up for myself. That I was not worthy of putting healthy boundaries in place.
 That was all for somebody else, but I was somebody who was supposed to be controlled.
 Treated like crap. Talk to poorly, badly, abusively.
 The key is when you don't see yourself as being worthy, then you will allow yourself or even seek putting yourself in situations for people to treat you badly.
 I loved greatly by an amazing woman, but I can remember times that I had to deep down inside years ago that myself, I would tell myself, you don't deserve for love.
 And it would have to be something that I would catch it super fast. Well, what was that? What am I doing? Oh my gosh.
 Man, that's some deep-seated stuff way back in the days. Oh gosh, I need to crush that right now. I need to crush that lie with truth.
 So even when you work on this stuff and you get quality tools put in place, it doesn't make it go away. It just allows you to destroy it rapidly.
 It also has an impact on how we contribute to and/or resolve conflict in our lives.
 If we don't, if we're not recognizing that the conflict shouldn't be there, then sometimes we won't do anything about it. I've literally been in conversations where somebody's trying to control me.
 Somebody is trying to change, somebody is literally changing things I'm saying, doing whatever, because they're trying to control the conversation where I've stopped.
 I'm sorry, I'm going to put in some healthy boundaries here. You've just changed what I've said and that's unacceptable. So if we want to stick with what's, you know, this discussion, we can do that.
 They continue on and I go, I'm sorry, I'm no longer going to be a part of this conversation.
 I'm like, what do you mean? And I'm like, well, you're doing things to change things I've said, you've done this, you've done this. I'm all very willing to have a conversation with you, but I'm not going to do it while you're doing what you're doing.
 So hopefully you understand that. I'm going to back out of the conversation if you'd like to have this conversation again in the future where it that stuff doesn't happen, then let me know.
 And the funny thing is, every time this has happened, the person who's been doing it is very easily able to go, I can appreciate that. I get that.
 Not denying, they don't deny it. They don't say, no, I didn't do that. No, that didn't happen.
 Because what they're seeing is for the first time somebody's putting healthy boundaries in place with them and shutting that down, not saying, they're a horrible person, not attacking them, just saying, I'm not willing to be in this conversation anymore.
 I'm moving on. Folks, many of you me included in my early days put yourselves in contentious situations. Put yourself in situations full of conflict. Why?
 Because you believe that's what you deserve. You believe that's where you're supposed to be. As long as that is what your mindset is, then you will constantly put yourself in situations that hurt you.
 And I can tell you, it ain't worth it. Back out of it. What you may find, as you begin to put healthy boundaries in places, you may find that the person you're putting the healthy boundaries in place with, well, actors though they're not going to allow it.
 They will lose their mind. They will go ballistic. If you care enough about you, you can continue. You don't have to attack them. You don't have to tell them they're horrible. You don't do it. You do that bad stuff. You just need to say, I'm not willing to be here and remove yourself from the situation.
 It also impacts how we process and grieve the pain in our past. If you are not worthy, if you are not good enough, if you're not loved enough, love a bull, if you're not able capable, if you deserve the bad stuff and the crap that's happened in your life,
 if you're not able to do it, you can do it. If you're not willing to do it, you can do it.
 People will continuously beat themselves up saying that they deserve it. Now, I am in no way saying that there are not things that you deserve. I have done plenty of stupid in my life.
 I pray is God for the correction and the pain that he's brought me and I pray is good for the times that he didn't bring me all the pain and correction that I deserved.
 When you lie to yourself, when you live in this place of how you're not good enough, you're not worthy enough, you're horrible person. Then many times you will beat the crap out of yourself telling yourself how much you deserve things that may have absolutely nothing to do with you.
 They may not. They may have absolutely nothing to do with choices you made. They may have. There's plenty of consequences I've received in my life from really stupid bad choices.
 I can tell you there's a whole lot of stuff that I received as consequence that had nothing to do with me. So the wounds we choose to carry with us is another large contributor to our sense of worth when we feel hurt by others.
 We tend to either become a controller of others or passive submissive to others. It just kind of depends on how we see ourselves. When we can't let go of past injustices, then we can seek to either dominate others or we can become victims and what we see all lot is victim mentality.
 We see a lot of the dominating as well, but we see a lot of victim mentality. So while we've just covered a whole lot of information about worth, believe it or not, we've just scratched the surface.
 But you can see why this is such a core discussion in everything that we do here. Everything we do.
 I believe everything comes back to two things in life. Yes, this is the philosophy of Chris Leker. Where we get our worth, which 99.99% is from men.
 Not where it should be from the creator of the universe who already told us what our worth is, who tells us what our worth is, who's the one who owns us and can tell us how worthy we are.
 Another thing that breaks my heart is how many people have written off God because they came out of a really stupid or crappy religious situation that said that they represent a God, but they did not.
 There was no Christ in them. There was no Christ likeness, right? When we see how much God truly loves us, it's a heck of a lot of ease here to shift or you get your worth from.
 It's a heck of a lot of ease here to go, no human being can possibly love me like he loves me.
 And his love for me is true. It's absolute, it's pure. The worth that I received from men is what I, the value that I have in man's eyes, which at the end of the day, a lot of the time sucks.
 So it's not even worth it. The other thing is, the other piece I believe is not trusting that God has our best interest at heart. Man, oh man, oh man, oh man, oh man, so many bad decisions, so many decision making processes are built on that.
 Not trusting. You talked to Christian after Christian. Oh, I totally trust God. Oh, I trust he has my, oh, I know he does. Okay, what did you do this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this and this.
 Well, I mean, those are things that that, you know, God's too busy for that. God doesn't care about those things. God doesn't. Well, that's not what his word says.
 And so what we've seen his actions. So every time I take control and I don't have faith in him and I don't trust in him. What I'm saying is, I don't trust he has my best interest at heart.
 So while we just scratched the surface, you have to understand that worth is woven into the fabric of our everyday lives. It can be the very thing holding us back from living life to the fullest or it could be the very thing propelling us forward towards our dreams.
 And our destiny, right? The choices yours today. The bottom line is that how we value ourselves and others should be informed on God's value.
 The value that he's assigned to us based on his love for us and what he's done for us. Now some of you may need to spend some time soaking up God's truth.
 Discovering his love for you today. So let me just give you this small piece from Romans 12 to Romans 12 too.
 So says this and this is from the new living translation. Don't copy the behavior and customs of this world.
 But let God transform you into a new person by changing the way you think, then you will learn to know God's will for you, which is good and pleasing and perfect.
 When you stop following the customs of this world, the behaviors of this world, what are those behaviors and customs? The ones of man.
 What does God want you to follow? His behaviors, his character, his customs, his ways.
 If you let him transform your thinking into his ways, if you let him transform your thinking into seeing how he loves you, then you will learn his will for you, which is phenomenal.
 Because it is good, it's pleasing and it's perfect. Folks, hopefully this is how to today. You know plenty of people, plenty of people, let's struggle with worth.
 You're probably looking at the person in the mirror and saying, "Yep, I struggle with worth. Help people to get this information.
 Share this with people. Help them to hear this. Help them to grow from this and guess what. You know what?
 The outcome is not your responsibility. So if you share this with others, a great friend of mine, Jill Borman, has up on her wall.
 Obedience is my responsibility. The results are gods. You know people that need to hear this, so the sea can be planted.
 They may respond horribly in the beginning. Don't worry about it. Just share it.
 It takes a while to get over what we have lied to ourselves about when it comes to our worth. You may be struggling with that right now.
 Help you first to understand this, to grow in this, to change the way you see you, the way you talk to you, and help others to experience this as well.
 It's an amazing thing when you get the right tools to be able to say, "I'm done dealing with this crap of telling myself how horrible I am.
 I want to live a life where I understand my worth even better." Not completely. I don't think you're going to get completely on this out of heaven.
 But my gosh, my understanding my worth of a Jillian times more than I ever have.
 Again, hopefully this has helped you today. You know what I want you to do. I want you to take this information. Change your leadership.
 Change your business. Change your life. Enjoy this on the next episode.
 [Music]