 On today's episode, while leaders and parents are more apt to avoid than engage in tough conversations,
 and what's at stake by not tackling those difficult situations that is up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life,
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Joining me in the studio today is the incredibly handsome and fabulous director of our business and leadership coaching here at the Point Man Group,
 our very own Erin West, Erin Welcome.
 Hi, Chris, thanks for having me on the show today.
 So good to have you, so good to have you in studio today. This is unusual for me, not typical.
 Yeah, we do a lot of over the, because you're remote.
 So we do a lot of Zoom calls to get to see you there.
 It's always good to have you here back in the studio.
 So you were going to be teaching on the next level leadership live event in just a few months about tough conversations.
 And that is what we're going to be talking about, but with that said, we're in the middle of a short but powerful many series that is teasing out some of these core concepts that we're going to be tackling at this year's next level leadership live event.
 Which you get is coming up soon.
 So we're just over a month away, but there's still time to get tickets for you and your team and to make plans to join us here in Nashville.
 So listen, if you are a business owner or a leader, this event was designed for you.
 It's designed for you, it's designed for your leaders.
 This is our premier once a year event that is open to the public.
 So you do not want to miss this.
 And this year we have even more of what you love, which is both the leadership lessons and the life sessions as well.
 So it's easy to do. Just go to cruskirtle.com/nextlevelleadership.
 I'll just one word to reserve your seats today.
 So let's dive into this topic.
 Now listen, any leader, any parent out there knows that having difficult but necessary conversations is a very complicated task.
 There's a lot that's involved.
 There is probably one of the most prominent things fear.
 That's one of the things that we see people struggle with all the time.
 Fear of how is this going to go?
 Fear of how is this going to be received?
 Fear of what's this going to make me look like afterwards?
 Fear all kinds of fear.
 There's risk. What if it does go badly?
 What if having this tough conversation doesn't work out the way you think that it should work out?
 There's discomfort. It feels like total conflict.
 I am the person who teaches this stuff and yet I hate conflict.
 I don't like conflict.
 And yet, God has just made it where I can not only use the right tools but teach people how to do so as well.
 There's usually lots of emotions.
 So things can get way out of control. Now for some people, they're like, nope.
 I can have a tough conversation and no emotions involved.
 I don't know if you have none.
 But for a lot of folks, the big issues that there's a lot of emotions and things can get complicated really really quick.
 By what exactly?
 Well, because a lot of leaders, a lot of parents have never been taught to have a tough conversation or at least a
 effective tough conversation. Let me say it that way that they're leading.
 They contend to blunder through it. They contend to do more harm than good if they are not in a position.
 And this is a big one. If they're not in a position to not get emotionally handcuffed to the conversation.
 If they're not in that position, then they will have a tendency to defend when things come back their way or stumble or struggle or get upset or feel like they're in a good position.
 Get upset or feel out of control. So you know what I mean? This can just end up in a collision of wolves and goals.
 It's kind of a train wreck. And so naturally people tend to shy away and avoid it whenever possible.
 So when we come back, what's really going on? What all is involved when we sit down to have a tough conversation?
 And what's that stake by avoiding them? That's coming up right after this.
 [Music]
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having a lack of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life, it all starts with having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with.
 Whether it be at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to crissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your team to date.
 Get it for your family members.
 As you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to crissacrittle.com/store 2 day.
 Welcome back and hey Aaron, you're on the show and haven't said much yet.
 You know, I'll say if you were here and there.
 You'll just pick it up this, I think I have had a big opening there.
 Give us a little bit of your background. What do people need to know about you?
 Yeah, so I much like a lot of our listeners. I'm a business owner and a business leader.
 I've been running my own business now for over 10 years working with companies and consulting with companies in audio video lighting.
 But I'm also leading businesses and coaching them through challenges working with teams, working with people.
 Because that's the big thing that a lot of leader struggle with is not the day to day.
 Hey, I got a business degree in this. It's the soft skills of working with people. How do I lead people?
 How do I motivate people? How do I help them be better?
 And going to one of you in our own mantras of, hey, our goal as leaders is not to make our self-successful.
 Our goal is to set our teams up so that we make them successful.
 So it's not the other way around.
 That's one of the things that we talk about a lot here.
 One of the things that you do is you look to make us successful.
 And we do that to our team.
 And we teach our clients out there the same kind of stuff.
 And so that's kind of my background with stuff and what I've been doing.
 I am a super high-s personality. I hate conflict.
 And I hate tough conversations.
 But much like you're talking about earlier before we went to break.
 It's something that I've had to learn how to do and work through and still learning how to do well.
 I'm not there yet on a lot of stuff.
 But there's a lot of stuff that I've gone man.
 This is a lot better than it was five ten years ago.
 If I had that conversation two years ago, wouldn't have gone.
 When the government went.
 It might have even gone at all.
 You know, the void of the conflict.
 So a lot of people don't know this.
 But you and I have known each other for gosh since 2008.
 2008.
 2008 when I hired you the first time.
 Which was fabulous.
 And we always laugh and say that you got the job because I held Ariana.
 She was six months old at the time.
 Six months old at the time through the whole interview.
 Yep.
 And that was just fabulous.
 And she is gosh, how old is she now?
 She's now 13.
 She's 14.
 That is just crazy.
 Yeah.
 So you worked, we worked together for many years.
 A lot of folks that have been to different events of her stories about Erin West.
 Great stories, fantastic stories.
 And then you went out on your own, right.
 Your own business still have that business.
 Yep.
 And now you're here for gosh, I don't know how long now helping and guiding businesses and leaders
 to the success that you've learned over all of these years as well.
 Absolutely.
 Now when I first met you, obviously, you were handling a lot of tough conversations, right?
 Yeah, a whole bunch of them.
 You see my head right now.
 I'm saying, you can get absolutely not.
 I avoided them like the plague.
 Why?
 You know, it's a lot of conflict.
 And as a high S, man, I was a people pleaser.
 I wanted people to like me.
 And if I had to have a tough conversation, I knew, man, if I have to have this conversation,
 they are not going to like me.
 We were all done.
 And I did not want that.
 I wanted to avoid that as much as I possibly could.
 And so I literally would tell myself, you know, it'll get better.
 Well, things will just get better.
 I don't have to deal with this.
 We'll get back to normalcy, just give it some time.
 And I learned real quick that that was not a path to success under any circumstances.
 The thing I always loved about you is that you always had a cool head.
 Like you always kid, you know, you, you, if there was things going crazy,
 and we dealt with some massive events, you know, 10,000 people events and all kinds of stuff like that.
 But you always had a really cool head during situations.
 I always loved that.
 But it didn't point to, it didn't show us how the things that you struggled with.
 Right?
 So what are like when you think of some of the things that you wrestled with or really held you back from engaging in tough conversations?
 Obviously, the people pleasing is going to hold anybody back.
 I don't, I, I don't want people to be upset.
 But what are some of those deeper things that you wrestled with?
 You know, there was even going back to one of the first things you said fear.
 Fear was such a big thing for me.
 I was afraid of, and for those of you who have been through next to a life you understand,
 I was afraid because I got my worth from people.
 Right?
 And I was afraid that if I had a tough conversation that I was going to lose worth through that conversation with him,
 and I did, I feared that I feared having to tell someone they did something wrong.
 Yeah.
 I was, I'm, I'm a positive person.
 You know this about me.
 I loved a smile.
 I loved to point out great things that people do.
 And I was a, I was actually fearful of going up to tell somebody they did something wrong.
 And that, that scared me.
 And even looking at even my own roots of some.
 And coming back to the stuff I grew up with and the stuff I experienced,
 not only as a kid growing up in the family I grew up in,
 but even in work experiences that I had in leaders that I had,
 I was never really taught how to have tough conversations well.
 And it goes back to, you know, there were tough conversations before they done well.
 Right.
 It might not have been.
 And so even for me, I didn't know what to do with that.
 I didn't know how to really have a great quality tough conversation with someone,
 because I didn't know what it looked like.
 And I was afraid of what it might look like in my own mind.
 I was putting stuff into my own mind about what I imagined would be the end result.
 And of course, as I, hi, this is a freight of conflict.
 Where do I go?
 I go to worst case scenario.
 And I start putting all those, oh man, this is what's going to happen.
 This is how they're going to fill about me.
 This is what they're going to think.
 This is what's going to happen after the fact.
 And it scared me a lot of times from that.
 There's also a lot of times where I did not ask the questions and getting perspective.
 Sometimes we have to go to a tough conversation.
 We immediately gather information and we go, I got to do something with that.
 And we don't actually go ask the questions.
 And for me, that was a hard thing for me was,
 man, I literally found myself getting just little bites of information and responding.
 Right.
 Oh, well, I've got to now go deal with this crap.
 This is not going to be great.
 This is not going to be fun.
 And had I actually gained perspective asked questions out of realized, oh,
 that really isn't that bad of a situation.
 But I was literally walking myself through all these negative things that were going to happen.
 And putting myself through all this stress and pressure.
 But that actually going, hey, what is actually the issue at hand?
 And so those are a couple of things for me that helped me back from really having great tough conversations.
 What do you need to have them?
 Yeah.
 It's so funny because you just laid out what almost every single person who struggles will dealing with tough conversations experiences.
 Right.
 One of the biggest things is, you know, how are people going to think about me?
 What is this going to say about me when I have this tough conversation?
 Are people going to think I'm a jerk?
 I'm, you know, I'm mean, I'm whatever.
 Are they going to think less of me?
 And as you laid out, my worth coming from how people see me,
 well, always keep me in a place of fear, right?
 I will always try and control what people are thinking,
 even though I can't control what people are thinking.
 I can only suggest what they're thinking.
 But I think a super important thing to understand about that aspect,
 holding us back is it never allows us to think about the positivity coming out of a tough conversation.
 I needed.
 Yeah.
 I saw all the negative of a tough conversation.
 I saw all the bad things that we're going to come out of it.
 And never thought, wait a second, if I have this tough conversation,
 how is this going to benefit the other person?
 How is this going to benefit me?
 How is this going to make everything that we're actually going for better?
 I was stuck in all the negative stuff.
 And that's why I lived so much of my life as I looked at these kind of situations.
 Yeah.
 So it's interesting because I've been leading leaders in business owners for decades.
 And I can tell you, there's been a lot of times when I've helped somebody sit down and have a tough conversation with somebody
 or let somebody go.
 And in the process of me getting perspective, I asked the question, how long has this been going on?
 And I can't tell you how many times somebody has said seven years.
 Wow.
 And I'm like seven years.
 They're like, I know.
 I know.
 And I'm ready.
 Is like, are you ready?
 Are you sure?
 Yeah.
 So it's funny to think about it.
 But my gosh, when you realize the impact of not doing it.
 So what's involved?
 What really goes on when leaders sit down to have a big talk?
 Well, there are several things.
 And I want you to kind of list out some of the big pieces that are involved when this happens.
 Yeah.
 I mean, some of the big things, and we've talked about some of them root system looking back in what you've experienced,
 what you have been shown.
 I mean, one of the things that we talk about a lot is, you know, when we go into a leadership role.
 I was talking to a new client today who is stepped into a leadership role for the first time.
 And they're kind of freaking out a little bit because they go, I've never led people before.
 And their perception of a leader hasn't always been a positive experience.
 And so they've got almost a tainted experience about what a leader supposed to look like.
 And they don't want to be that.
 And so that whole root system piece of this is what I've experienced is what I know.
 Speak into how I have tough conversations.
 The way your parents have tough conversations with you, the way leaders have had tough conversations.
 You're telling them screaming, yelling and screaming.
 Yeah, exactly.
 Back a lot of things.
 Depending on how exactly the pick and how they all go about it.
 Right.
 Thank you for not holding back a love for me, Chris.
 That's a little bit.
 Absolutely.
 The other thing is perspective, you know, missing that additional perspective that's a
 good.
 It can sometimes help you realize, gosh, this really isn't that tough of a conversation.
 Well, and a big thing that people screw up all the time is that, so.
 Depending upon the personality style, you have to build yourself up, right?
 You and I are both high S's.
 Yeah.
 There have been times and early on when we're having tough conversations.
 And, you know, that you felt like you had to build yourself up.
 I remember my early days of leadership when I didn't have all these tools.
 And I would have to build myself up to have this tough conversation with somebody who's screwing something up.
 And somebody's ripping my head off.
 And, you know, all the stuff was going on.
 And then I get in there and it's like, hey, what did you do this thing?
 And they're like, I didn't.
 It's like, oh crap.
 That's when you feel really good about yourself.
 Oh, yeah.
 It's like, I was worried about losing worth with the tough conversation.
 Now I'm losing worth because I just accused somebody of something.
 And I didn't get all the perspective, right?
 And so this point that you're making is so profound.
 It's amazing how just the right information can actually settle you into having a great tough,
 necessary conversation, right?
 Because you still may be a tough conversation, but at least you don't.
 You're not going in, you know, guns loaded, guns of blaring only to find out that the information you have is wrong.
 So that's such a big piece of that.
 Yeah, and you actually hit on another piece.
 And that's personality and personality styles and understanding that.
 And as high as we want to avoid as much possible.
 However, high D personality styles, especially to be on how much sure they are in the personality style.
 And they're not going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're not going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're not going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're not going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're not going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're not going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're not going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're not going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're not going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're not going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're not going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're not going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're not going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 And they're going to be on the right end of the day.
 But think about the context I use that in.
 And literally we will get hung up on those pieces like that of how we were
 receiving the info.
 Yeah.
 And even once you're hearing that.
 And it's good to understand that if the person, not if the person who is receiving the tough conversation
 is already probably got some walls up is already probably guarded.
 And they're losing worth because this is the tough conversation.
 And like you're saying how they're going to receive the info.
 And one of the important things is put yourself in their shoes.
 Yep.
 If you understand the personality style, you can also understand they're probably struggling with this like crazy.
 And if they are a high sea, the last thing they want is the, oh, I did something wrong.
 Yep.
 And so they are looking to find something that they can flip it back on and go.
 Nope.
 This is wrong.
 This information is incorrect.
 Right?
 Why would they do that?
 Because just like everybody else on the planet.
 The high sea is trying to avoid that issue, right?
 That tough conversation.
 Well, and as a high sea, if I feel like I can discredit what you're saying.
 Right.
 And at one moment, I can discredit everything you say.
 Absolutely.
 And so that's the thing to watch out for that.
 You know, the other thing is setting boundaries.
 You know, tough conversations actually can help you set great boundaries.
 We talk a lot about setting, not just boundaries, but healthy boundaries.
 And this is one of the things that if we don't have the tough conversations,
 we could actually be avoiding setting really good boundaries.
 Yeah.
 I think back on my life and times where I did not set good boundaries.
 And I did not have tough conversations.
 And I find myself in the middle stuff.
 I don't need to be involved in.
 I don't want to be involved in.
 But I've been to rug into it because I've voted the tough conversation.
 I don't want to think about how to want to hurt somebody's feelings.
 But I also didn't set good boundaries on it.
 Yeah.
 And then the last one is really allowing yourself to say no.
 And man, this is such a hard one for my personality style as a high-high-s-i-c.
 I'm just sick.
 That's all I was going to say every time.
 High-high-s-i-c-s-i-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-
 Hi, hi, hi, as I see.
 As I see, I'm sick.
 But it's hard as this person on the stock to say no a lot of times.
 And there are people that it's easier to say no to what, why is that?
 What does that mean?
 Because I don't want to disappoint you.
 Yes.
 I don't want to make somebody feel like, "Oh, hey, Aaron will do this."
 And then they ask me, "I don't really want to hurt their feelings.
 I want to disappoint them."
 I'll do that.
 I'll take care of it.
 I don't want you to have to worry about my S kicks in.
 I don't want you to worry about that.
 I'll solve that for you.
 I'll take care of all that for you.
 And so those are some of the things that I walk through and even process through before I even have the conversation.
 So that I can make sure that I'm setting myself up for success.
 And I'm making sure I can set up the team member or whoever it is that I'm leading a child through this so that I can set them up for success too.
 I want to think about all of those things before I even jump into the conversation.
 I think it is a massive mistake.
 And I am so guilty of having done this.
 And my earlier years, and I've probably done it since, but this was definitely a standard for me that when I was going into a tough conversation in my early career, I was focused more on my responses.
 I would pay, well, Aaron's going to respond this way.
 Well, he's going to say this.
 What he's going to do this, and it was in that defensive mode, right?
 Yeah.
 My emotions were handcuffed to that potential conversation.
 And therefore, I wasn't being a great leader in having a tough conversation and caring about Aaron and what he needs to hear and what he's going to struggle with.
 And what I still need to do to protect the company or whatever the reason is for the tough conversation.
 And so instead of doing the things that you just said before you go in, prepare, think through all these things, what's the personality style, do I understand any of their root system, do I have the right perspective, how do they receive?
 You know, all these different pieces you just shared, if I spent time on that, then I wouldn't go into the tough conversation in a defensive posture.
 Yeah.
 Because I'm already having to build myself up to have this conversation.
 Now that we do this at, well, I mean, we rarely have to have tough conversations.
 We tough conversations for us more happen in events or something like that.
 But team wise, we rarely have to have tough conversations.
 It takes five minutes to think through what's the information, what's this, what's this, okay?
 And instead of sitting down, starting with a tough conversation, it usually starts off with a lot of perspective gathering from the other person.
 And then if need be, we go into that tough conversation. So I think it's important to understand that you don't want to control the outcome.
 You don't want to control what happens.
 That's what we convince ourselves.
 We need to be in control and need to control the outcome.
 No, you need to control you.
 Yep.
 If you can control you, control your emotions, then what happens is that you can ask great questions, give great information, stay on subject, which is very different.
 For people to do because when you're pressing somebody, they like to deflect and go different direction.
 And then get to the best result.
 So big piece.
 You know, I talked a little bit ago about the multiple people who didn't do something for years and years and years, those people stayed on their staff.
 They continued to pay them, they continued to be poisoned.
 What's at stake?
 What is at stake when a person or a parent, a leader, a business owner,
 or a parent doesn't sit down to have tough conversation because they're ruled by fear?
 And I tell you the thing is, when we don't have that conversation, the end result is never good.
 I mean, I'll just be real with you.
 I heard somebody say at one time, we can speak things under the rug, but eventually we have a mountain in front of us, we can't climb anymore.
 And we think, oh, we'll just keep it under the rug, the rug will get smaller, no, the rug gets bigger.
 It really does. And so when we're, when we're avoiding these conversations, but we're having these fear these conversations,
 one, we're not setting ourselves up for future success.
 We're allowing ourselves to be controlled by our own fear.
 We're allowing ourselves to be held back in our own growth, our own personal growth, our own abilities,
 because we are so afraid of what the outcome might be.
 The second thing is, we're holding the other person back.
 Because now you've got somebody who, for whatever reason, they go, and depending on personality style, they could go, man, I just got away with something in my leader and saying,
 I darn thing about it, to me.
 Sweet.
 I literally have said, this is somebody you know from years ago, I literally have sat in a tough conversation.
 And the team member got up and walked out the door, and I looked at the leader and they're like, man, that went really well.
 And I'm like, they have no clue that was a tough conversation.
 They don't know. They actually think that you just pat on them on the back.
 And they're like, well, I don't want it to be bad.
 And it's like, they don't know. It's just so funny.
 Yeah. And you know, when I'm not setting them up, if they, they walk out and go, man, that was a great conversation and go,
 hold up.
 Why should you be in pain a little bit, right?
 I've been something wrong in this conversation.
 Maybe I wasn't clear in my communication.
 But honestly, we're holding our team back.
 We're holding them back from being able to grow.
 We're holding our kids back.
 Oh, my gosh. What about the kids?
 I'm sitting at about my girls. I've got a 13 and 11 year old.
 Yes.
 Wow.
 I have to make sure that.
 Yeah, 11 year old.
 And I'm looking at them as they're turning into young women.
 And even some of the stuff we've already had conversations on.
 And I love that I can even have tough conversations with them right now.
 And they understand why we're having the tough conversations.
 They understand, wait, this is not dad being a jerk dad.
 You know, because he's taken all my fun away.
 There's a reason and a purpose behind it.
 And here's the thing we've not talked about that.
 I think it's so important with that as a leader or as a parent.
 When you have trust with that person that you're having the tough conversation with,
 it changes the way they receive it.
 Yeah.
 I think back to, you know, you kind of joke about some of the times where you've had to have
 conversations.
 I think back to my time of receiving tough conversations from you on things and watching you handle
 them and how you walk through them and recognizing myself going, wait a second, who is talking
 to be about this?
 What is their part?
 Are they trying to tear me down?
 They're trying to hurt me.
 Are they trying to hurt me?
 No, what I'm getting is I'm getting someone who cares enough about me to want to help me.
 Do we ever have a tough conversation?
 Oh my gosh.
 We've had a few.
 But they were probably not as big as some that you've had.
 But for me, look, I've really had some conversations.
 Yeah, you were like, oh, that was just a normal conversation.
 That was another thing for that.
 But for me, they've actually set me up to now go, okay, wait a second.
 The fact of who Chris is, you know, I think about their people in my life.
 They're certain people in my life who have great trust and respect for because they're
 looking out for me.
 Right.
 They're not coming to attack.
 They're not coming to attack.
 Like I said there, and I think about, and I think I should just leave it before the experience
 that I had being under you and Matt Woodburn as my leaders at days and the way you
 guys handled challenges, the way you guys handled conflict with the team, the way you guys
 let us, is such an important thing because I got an opportunity to see what real
 leadership looks like that I may not have got otherwise.
 I may not have experienced otherwise, and that helped change who I was.
 Well, now I can turn around and not only lead my team, not only lead other clients who are
 coaching and leading their teams, but even my own kids.
 And now we're talking about legacy changes.
 We're talking about long-term things that I've affected one person.
 How many people have that one person affected?
 Yeah.
 I think something that is so important to recognize is that you chose to implement.
 The things that you do, I mean, you are, again, coaching business owners and leaders
 daily because you chose to actually implement the things that you were trained on and
 taught and grew in those things.
 That's, I think that is one of the big keys here is that a lot of folks sitting out there
 are high-ess agencies going, "Oh, I just can't do that.
 That's too much conflict."
 And yet here we are both high-ess is you're a high-essy or decent amount of,
 what did you see?
 16?
 That's just something.
 Depending on which day the week.
 Which one is all the day?
 Two people who've gone from, "Oh my gosh, I can't stand conflict."
 "Hey, I still can't stand conflict.
 I just know how to do it."
 And that implementation is the thing.
 And that just cash to it.
 I can't tell you how much that warms my heart to go back to the air in of 2008.
 Oh my goodness.
 You know, and the Chris, look at her about 2008, right?
 And see where we were back then.
 But to see where you were what you were coming out of, the leadership that you were experiencing at the time,
 the all that kind of stuff and to see you grow over the years and implement,
 to doing it yourself, to experiencing it yourself, to leading your own teams yourself,
 all of that stuff and putting yourself in this place.
 The funny thing is people are listening to this going, man, I don't know if I can even do the tough conversation.
 And what we're talking about is having stepped in with the information to do the first one and start the practice from there has you with this place.
 I mean, it has me at where I am, right?
 So I think that's so vitally important that it's not just, we're not just talking about going in and having one tough conversation with a team member,
 one tough conversation with a child, with a spouse.
 We're talking about a process change and you've got, I mean, you're going to give all the details and all the tools and all the stuff to handle this at next level leadership event.
 But it is not just one, it's not a one-time event.
 It is the way that you lead things going forward to the point that it's so funny.
 As you were talking about us having tough conversations, I'm like, oh my god, literally,
 the only thing I can ever think about is the one email, it's changed that we had when you very first came on board, which was so funny.
 It wasn't even a tough conversation for that one.
 But it's like, I don't even look back and go, we had tough conversations.
 I don't even think about that, right?
 I'm sure surely there was probably something in there, but it wasn't a, oh, your failure, you're doing, it's a, hey, let's walk through this, let's change this, let's fix this, that kind of stuff.
 To that, you do that, you lead that, you parent that way to where your children look at you and go, I know that, I know his character, I know what he's doing.
 And I think that's such a big thing is that the person who's receiving the tough conversation can film miserably when they don't think about who, what's the character of the person.
 Not the character I'm making up.
 Yeah, actual character.
 Yeah, and I would even, you know, going back to even what you're talking about of earlier times where you had tough conversations with me and, and they, they were nothing for you.
 Because it wasn't really a tough conversation.
 I had never experienced a true real conversation, a tough conversation.
 And, you know, I, there's, in my pastor, signs where I'd been yelled at, there's sounds I've been burrated, there's sounds where I've been avoided and not had conversation about stuff.
 And so to sit down and actually have a true tough conversation, I mean, I'll be real with you.
 There were, there were moments of fear when Mary Beth would go, "Hey, Aaron, Chris wants to see you in his office."
 Everybody, have that fear which is so funny.
 And I'm going, "Oh crap, what did I do?"
 You know, it's like going to be going to the principal's office.
 You know, it's like, "What did I do to make the principal mad at me today?"
 And honestly going into it, you could have been like, "Dude, hey, I just wanted to tell you about this.
 This is a great thing. I just wanted you to be aware of it."
 But the fear was there.
 But the fear was there because I was so afraid of what the, because my mind, I'd already put the conversation was there.
 It was going to be a negative, bad conversation. I have no idea.
 And as a person who would not walk through understanding my own defensiveness, I was, it was like, I was building up this whole defensive posture to go,
 "Okay, if Chris says this, here's my defensive, Chris says this, here's my defensive, Chris goes here, here's what I'm going to say."
 And I'm going through this whole process as I'm walking the 20 to 30 steps into your office.
 And then I get in there and go, "Hey, let's just talk about this on this AV thing.
 Can we, next time can we watch this and do this?"
 And of course for you, you're just like, "Hey, this is definitely a look at watch for it. Let's improve it over next time."
 And I'm going, "Wait, that was the tough conversation. I don't feel like I need to respond the way that I was preparing myself to respond."
 And because I built myself up to go, "Alright, he's going to come in and guns blaze and here we go."
 And that didn't happen. And I learned over time that when...
 To anticipate it.
 Yeah, when it was like, "Hey, Chris needs to see you in his office. I can go down there and go, "Okay, let's do it again. Is it positive? Great, let's do it again."
 "Is it negative? Alright, let's work on how can we make it better?"
 Because I knew I had learned enough about who your character was and who you were that I trusted that what you were going to say to me was not going to be, "Hey, I'm going to attack you."
 Yeah, I think it's so funny because Emily Plunk, I hope you're listening out there, Emily.
 Oh, I didn't believe it.
 Oh, gosh, I think her and her gaggle of children.
 Yes, her four kids. It's just fun. I think they're coming down to the ridge, hopefully sometimes soon and just see everything.
 It's been a while since we've seen her.
 But I used to said that we used to have that instant message on the computers. And I'd say, "Hey, come see me."
 She'd come and she would stand on that door for a bit of like, "Hey, you okay?" She's like, "Yeah."
 Like, "Well, what's the matter?" She's like, "I'm just waiting to see what you have to share."
 And I'm like, "Hey, can you just call so and so and set this thing or do this thing?" She's like, "Okay."
 And then what day I went, "Hey, what's go to your mind?" And she goes, "I'm just always prepared for when you send that instant message that it's going to be something horrible."
 And I went, "M."
 Do you think I would ever send you a text message to come see me?
 "Hey, to tell you something horrible or rip your head off."
 And be, "Have I ever seen me rip your head off for anybody else's head?" She's like, "No."
 And I said, "Okay, think of those things next time I send you a text."
 "If I come over to your desk and put my hand on your shoulder and say, "We have to talk."
 "There's probably something to be worried about at that moment."
 "Not to self, I'm glad I work remote Christmas."
 "I'm not saying to myself, "I'm just saying to myself, "I'm just saying to myself, "which is so funny because to me, gosh, I always think, "Man, I'm the nicest guy on the planet.
 I love people. I take, I always think that way, but it has nothing to do necessarily with me as much as that root system,
 "that thing that we've experienced, that thing that we've gone through in life, that keeps us going, "Oh my gosh, I'm so worried and fearful about the situation.
 "Instead of what you're saying, let me take a hard look at who I'm talking about.
 "And what is the character of this person and what can I anticipate?"
 So, as we're talking through this, we're recognizing so many things of why it's important to do it.
 But there's actually some disadvantages even coming back to avoiding this.
 And when we're not having these tough conversations, we can have relationships that deteriorate because we're not solving this stuff.
 We're not digging into it. We're not resolved completely.
 Exactly. We're right there. And like I said earlier, if you ignore the problems, it's not going to go away. They're still going to be there.
 And it's so funny how many times I will go, "Oh, that thing, I'll do it with that later."
 Yeah. There's never all scutty-puts. I've got, let me think through this.
 I don't know if I have ever recognized the time.
 But I don't think there's going to be many times when a team member comes to you and says, "Hey, have a tough conversation with me?"
 Please, I would like to have that conversation with you.
 Would you tell me what I'm doing wrong and what I'm screwing up and what I need to fix it?
 This is something like a bad money Python.
 Yeah. So the thought of what's the, if I'm not doing something about it, it's not going to resolve itself.
 If I don't resolve it, who is going to resolve it?
 Yeah. And the thing is, is that right there where we're talking about, I'm now Miss the opportunity to actually lead others.
 Yeah. That's a huge thing is that later, I've got tons of opportunities to lead my team.
 Tough conversations are one of those opportunities. And if we're not taking advantage of that, we are not leading our team in those areas that we could be.
 And here's the deal. Just so we're talking about earlier about kind of leaving a legacy, you know, learning how to have a tough conversation from you has set me up for success.
 I'm hoping it sets my girls up for success to be able to have tough conversations in their lifetime with the things that they're doing.
 I'm hoping that the clients I'm communicating with and learning to have tough conversations with their team, they're setting their team up to have tough conversations down the road,
 whether it's with family, with team members, whatever it may be, and having great conversations around that.
 Quality, even tough conversations can be great in quality, which is kind of an, I think to think about, but it really can because otherwise we're missing that opportunity.
 If we don't solve a thirst confusion. And then this is one of the things that we talk about a lot with, even our people and our key leaders program that we have.
 We've got the secondary leaders who have some magnificent leaders over the part of our mastermind program.
 We have some who even talk about those situations in previous situations or previous workplaces where they didn't have a leader who communicated well with them.
 Didn't talk about tough conversations, didn't do things like that.
 And what ends up happening is you have this gap of information now.
 And we start feeling that lack of information, that gap of information, especially with high-sets, with worst case possible scenarios.
 You know, it's a whole thing of, hey, those raster jumping off the ship.
 Should we go join them, you know, it's that it's just hold the worst possible scenario we can think of.
 And we go in our minds, oh my goodness, my leader thinks this about me now.
 Exactly. When in fact, we just not have any conversation because we don't have the communication at all period.
 We're now filling it in with this information that's not there.
 We talk a lot. We teach leaders, we teach business owners, teach your team to anticipate you.
 They should be able to anticipate how you're going to respond.
 When you don't respond, you teach them to anticipate with imagination.
 Right? Because they don't have the facts of what you would do in that situation.
 They don't have the tough conversation. They don't have the you coming alongside them, growing them, helping them.
 You know, so they imagine what's going to happen.
 And it's so funny because I've experienced this in decades of leading people when I find something that hasn't been handled.
 And I'm like, hey, why is this happening? Why didn't you talk to me? Why didn't you bring this up?
 And I was worried that you were going to be pissed.
 And I'm like, how do I normally handle it?
 It is funny because the answer is always the same.
 Well, you would ask me what happened.
 And then what? You would ask me why it happened.
 And how it happened? And how do we fix it? And how do we make sure it never happens again?
 And then I say, well, and then what? And I'm like, well, that's pretty much it. You're done.
 Like, I'm not going to rip you. I don't know. You're not going to.
 Here's the thing when you don't do those things.
 What you're telling somebody is, oh my gosh, this is, you know, he, if I go and handle this or if I go bring this to him,
 he might rip my, it allows the imagination to run wild.
 The flip side of this is when you don't handle a tough conversation with somebody because something
 they're doing, something that's gone wrong, whatever.
 And you continue to not have that tough conversation. It's like what you're talking about.
 It's sweeping the things under the rug.
 The issue with them, let me rephrase the conversation with them is now 10 times as tough.
 Yes. Because they've gotten away with it. It's not been a problem.
 You've never brought it to their attention. You didn't handle it.
 You didn't resolve the conflict, whatever.
 So now when it's time to have that tough conversation, they're slightly surprised.
 I mean, they're not 100% surprised, but they're mostly surprised that they're having this conversation because you've not done anything about it.
 And now instead of having a quick, much less painful tough conversation that's guiding and leading,
 now you're having a you've really screwed things up. And I'm done with it.
 And we're not doing it this way any more type of a conversation.
 I mean, there's nothing worse going into a tough conversation with somebody and start the conversation and they go,
 even if there's anything about this before.
 What are you about?
 You know, and it's like, yeah, because I've kind of been ignoring it for seven years.
 Yeah, exactly.
 Hey, when we come back, some of the hidden benefits from learning to engage in difficult conversations wisely and calmly.
 Free dumb. It's so powerful.
 I don't rejuvenate and almost renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So I was very comfortable there.
 That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it.
 It's going to be hard.
 But it's going to be even better on the other side.
 For me, it was just very refreshing.
 And I want to say life to you for me and really was.
 You know, I would go to the next level of life again and probably again and probably again.
 Because it's so powerful.
 I want you to ask yourself a question, could you hear the sense of hope and freedom and their voice is just that?
 I want you to know that could be you.
 Look, it's easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns and unhealthy relationships.
 It's going to take some work.
 But yes, there is hope for you.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation,
 the same kind of self-warnishing freedom that they have or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like for you.
 Then head on over to crissacardo.com/nextlevellife.
 So we've talked about a lot of the negative signs, a lot of the, hey, if you don't do this.
 And again, we're talking a lot about leadership.
 We've got to think through this, all of us parents have to think through this.
 How am I setting myself up?
 I think of how you're setting the girls up for marriage.
 Right?
 How they can have tough conversations with a spouse and marriage or how they will not choose somebody who can't actually handle a tough conversation.
 Praise God.
 Right? So that's such a powerful thing.
 We need to look at avoiding having the tough conversations with kids sets up entitled kids sets up kids who can't take care of themselves.
 Set up kids who expect the world to solve everything for them.
 So you've got to do it. What are the advantages to engaging?
 Well, you know, sometimes we think we all, we tend to think tough conversations about somebody who's done something bad.
 But something doesn't think wrong.
 I have to go correct this. There's other times where people could just be putting themselves in positions.
 They may not realize that are causing them harm long term.
 And they're just stuck where they're at.
 And by not having that conversation, they're just getting deeper and deeper into that whole that they may not realize are in.
 I think of a dear friend of mine in college who was kind of that.
 It was almost this this circular every day is just a new thing and honestly victim mentality that played a lot into this.
 And unless someone had a tough conversation with them and walked them out of it, it was just this thing you know.
 It just kept going down the drain every day and every day.
 God, there's people that are telling them that they are victims as men.
 It just compounds then.
 Yeah, exactly.
 So that's that's one you know, advantage to helping someone get unstuck from whatever it is, whether it's a bad behavior, whether it's just something they're dealing with and not even recognizing with themselves.
 You know, there could be broken relationships.
 And sometimes the tough conversation is what needs to happen to come out of a broken relationship.
 They renew that and rebuild that relationship.
 Because here's a deal.
 If I have a broken relationship with and I think a family a lot in this situation.
 If I have a broken relationship with a family member and we're dealing with stuff and I'm not having the conversation and engaging on it.
 I'm not talking about it, the tough conversation.
 I should not expect that situation to get any better.
 It's going to stay that way.
 It's going to stay with the difficulty that's there because we're not doing anything to solve it.
 And how many times is a family conflict just about misunderstanding?
 Oh gosh.
 That if you get in and have a good tough conversation then all of a sudden it's say, okay, I didn't realize that.
 I'm sorry.
 I didn't know that whatever it is.
 And sometimes it's it's a, you know, it's got to be a tough one.
 It's got to be difficult.
 But G's so many times we find family members that are just at,
 with each other because it's just a misunderstanding.
 They don't realize.
 Yeah, and honestly, it's helping somebody walk through that or have that tough conversation.
 Here's the hard thing.
 They may look at you and go, I hate you.
 And in the moment they may think that because you're going, hey, I'm calling you out on what's going on on this.
 But in the other side of it, they go, that was actually really helpful.
 I'm glad that happened.
 I'm glad we walked through that because it gave them new perspective.
 It gave them new light on things that maybe they hadn't looked at.
 They were satisfied in their frustration with the other family member, whatever it may be.
 Yeah, I can think back to one of my girls telling me, you know, at this time, you were telling me this at this point here.
 And I didn't like you very much right then.
 And it's like, yeah, and it's like, well, obviously you were correct.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 And it was something that was tough.
 I didn't want to hear it.
 And now it's a decision that she's making going, oh, I don't want that in my life.
 Yep.
 Right.
 But in the moment, it's like, well, I don't like you telling me that because I want to be independent.
 I want to be able to make my own decisions.
 And it's like, you can make your own decisions just understand what you're doing.
 And then it's the, you know, as they mature, it's the, oh, okay, you know what?
 I don't want that for my kids.
 I'm changing my mind, right?
 Is it okay to have somebody not be happy with you in the moment?
 Man, if the long game is that they change make different decisions make better decisions in life.
 Yeah.
 Yep.
 But as a high, high, high, yes.
 That is hard.
 Yeah.
 It totally is tough.
 It totally is.
 But again, the thing about all of these things with any of these advantages is you've got to remember
 it's not about you.
 And you said this earlier, I think it's such an important thing.
 You cannot make this about you.
 You've got to make this about the other person and help the other person who's struggling and walking through
 and when you come at it with that mindset of being the servant leader of really serving the other person going,
 how can I help them be successful even through this difficult situation?
 Whether it's a family member, whether it's a team member, whether it's a kid as a parent or whatever may be.
 That is the thing that makes a difference.
 If I make it all about me, if I make it about going back to again, we talked about earlier, if I make it about me being the selfish person going,
 I wonder how this is going to benefit me and how I can handle this and what is my goal out of this,
 that I'm no longer caring enough about the other person actually serve them.
 Are you going to help me as an attendee at this event to learn how not to make this about me?
 Yeah, that's part of what we're going to talk about.
 Because that's such a difficult thing, right?
 It is.
 It is.
 It is.
 I hear you.
 I'm thinking of all the people that I out there going, I hear you Aaron.
 However, however, I still don't know how to do that, right?
 And it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's
 And it's, once you, once you get you out of the way and you do not, you have to have the tools, but once you get you out of the way,
 men it changes the way that you go about having those conversations.
 Yeah, yeah, so I mean really kind of summarizing some of the things that I think we've talked about is,
 one is really stay focused on what your conversation is about.
 It's so easy for someone like we talked about getting defensive or deflecting,
 stay focused on the topic.
 This is this is something to help you as you work with these tough conversation.
 Stay focused on what you're actually talking about.
 Don't let it devolve into something else.
 It isn't needed or necessary for the conversation.
 Remember to stay focused on the other person, just like we talked about.
 This is key to this.
 And this is a key part to this.
 Get to resolution.
 Find that resolution because that's what that's what bring clarity to the whole conversation, the whole situation.
 Yeah, even if you've got to come back and even if I got to come back again and go,
 hey, you know, we talked about this the other week. I want to talk about it again.
 Yeah, I think one of the things that I love that you're going to be teaching on is the piece of how to stay on topic,
 especially with folks who are struggling and having that tough conversation,
 they find themselves after the conversation feeling railroaded,
 or run over by train.
 How do you want to look at not railroaded, but feel like they've been hit by a mat truck, how about we say that?
 Because they went into the conversation to have one conversation and they ended up feeling like everything was pushed back on them and it's all their fault.
 And they weren't able to stay on topics, so that's a big piece.
 Yeah, and honestly, that's some of the stuff that is going to come out of the event, some of the stuff we're going to talk about.
 I will tell you there are personal stories right now that I'm actually going through tough conversations that I'm having in my personal life with friends.
 And I'm going, gosh, when April rolls around, this is probably going to be on the other side of that, this could be a really interesting piece to talk about.
 To share the truth about what, yeah, it's fresh right now for me.
 I'm even thinking about it right now for having the conversation going, yeah, I've got to have that conversation.
 I don't need to keep pushing this off. I don't need to keep bearing this.
 And so this just kind of shows you, these are things that even I still have to work myself through.
 It's not like I'm easy to go, yeah, all right, let's go have a tough conversation.
 Even as a high-s and leader who's been doing this, there's still times where I have to go, I've got to work myself to this and I've got to go have that tough conversation.
 Let's make sure I go do that.
 Well, the thing I love is that when you have these tools, it keeps you from trying to control, trying to manipulate the outcome, trying to change things to your advantage instead.
 It becomes about you trying to have the best conversation, the best situation, the best outcome for the person, for you, for the team, for the business, whatever it is, right?
 When you have these tools, so, dude, thank you for joining me in the studio today.
 It's been fantastic and illuminating as always.
 Always a pleasure. Thank you for having me.
 Good having you here. If people want to dig into this topic even more at the event, what do they do?
 I think it's going to be really easy if they hadn't picked up yet.
 Go to Chricicuro.com/nextlevelleadershipalloneword.
 You can get your seats reserved there. The great thing about that, if you go there, you'll find out tons of information about all the lessons we're teaching on.
 You can set up a call with Joel or myself and we'll be happy to walk you through getting you at the event and helping you answer any questions for you.
 Fantastic. Well, good having you on again, brother.
 Well, folks, as always, we hope this has helped you today. We hope this has been enlightening and we hope that you take this information.
 Change your leadership. Change your business. Change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]