 Leaders who don't take time to do these three things may just be their own worst enemies that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life, and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks. I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Joining me in the studio today is the the devilish, devilishly handsome, the utterly mischievous VP of our leadership
 development and next level of life facilitator, Mr. Joel Fortner, welcome to the show, brother.
 Thank you. Thank you for that very original introduction.
 You know, that's me, I'm a original. Hey, it's always my great pleasure to have you in the studio with me,
 but before we get to you, we're actually going to talk about something else, which is coming up really soon, and that is the next level of leadership live event.
 I feel like we should have like an applause. We should. There, everyone who's listening, picture, confetti and balloons and your favorite.
 Okay, t-shirt cannons. There you go. We're just over a month away, but there's only a few days left to get in on a really great ticket price.
 So here's what the event is all about. If you are a business owner or leader, this event was designed for you.
 This is our premier once a year event that is open to the public. So you don't want to miss it.
 This year, we'll have even more of what you love, which is both the leadership and the life lessons.
 Now, right now, we're still in the early bird phase, and you can get discounted tickets.
 Just go to Chrissacardo.com/nextlevelleadership. One word to reserve your seats today.
 The early bird special ends this Friday, the 25th of February. So hurry. Get your seats now.
 With that said, Joe Forder, why are you on the show with me today?
 So I'm on the show because, you know, for one, I'm getting to teach at this illustrious event.
 I should do everything. And we're here to talk about leading ourselves better today. And I'm going to be teaching
 in this whole new life track that we're doing that Monday or that front Monday. I'm still in, I'm still way back in 2016.
 We first launched this event everybody. We did Monday to stay Wednesday, and I've never left it.
 Right. On Wednesday, on day one, while you're teaching all great leadership stuff, I'm going to be teaching
 all what is hopefully really great life stuff. And so that's what we're here to talk about today.
 So talk about the new, the addition of the life track at the next level leadership live event. And why we're doing this?
 So the reason we're doing this is because we have clients who are bringing team members to this event.
 Because they want them exposed to this kind of information. And so while a lot of leaders are going to be
 sitting in the leadership track all day on the first day, they're wanting their people exposed to this life
 teaching. So taking advantage of that. So so many of those leaders have actually been through next level
 lives. Exactly. So we've created this full up life track now. And this really what I think about it.
 This better even represents who we are and what we do is that we shepherd people in leadership and the life.
 So to be able to do all of that within one event is just so it's just so fun. I'm so looking forward to it.
 We are excited about it. We cannot wait to see how that goes with all of the team members that are going to be joining us.
 And it's just such a powerful thing. We started learning that
 Gosh, how many years back that a leader would come in by themselves get the information. Then have to go train their team on it.
 And we just started seeing leaders ask literally. I think it was Josh Gettig. Maybe I've been the first person and goes,
 Can I just bring my team members? And this is just to the retreats that we do. Because we also do three
 closed retreats. Not open to the public. It's just for our mastermind clients, our KLP clients, all that kind of fun stuff.
 And we're like, yeah, I can't bring them definitely. And after they came, they were like,
 this was so much easier than me going back and teaching. We all got it out at the same time. So we're
 excited about seeing adding this life track to it. So when we come back three ways that leaders hold
 themselves back for and leading themselves as well as leading others.
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here. I'm the vice president of leadership development on Krissis team.
 And I oversee our next level mastermind business coaching program. Most business owners and leaders
 lack a clear path to succeed in business. They question whether they're making the right decisions,
 if they're focusing on the right things to really grow their business. If this is you, you need a
 coach in your life. Coaches help you make better decisions, navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively,
 and grow your business without sacrificing your life in your family. In their first year,
 our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue and an average of 138% increase
 in net profit and regain hours of time. Our clients stay in the program for three and a half years,
 simply because of the results they get. So if you're ready to run your business at the next level
 and see the growth you've been wanting, then visit crissacordo.com/mastermind. Again,
 Krissacordo.com/mastermind today. All right, so Joel, what is the first way that we're dealing with
 talking about how leaders might get in their own way on holding themselves back from being
 really excelling as a leader? So if you're trying to guess this right now,
 you're trying to just sit there and be like, "Hmm, I wonder what they're going to talk about."
 I wonder what people would say? I know. I wonder, but I have a feeling it may not be,
 they may say things around the topic of, or about to hit, but I think people would think, "Oh, it's
 busyness. It's not managing your time. Well, it's whatever. It's not. It's actually self-protection."
 It's a human thing. That's why we're doing the life track this way. And there are going to be
 leaders who sit in the life track as well because they are making a choice. And they're like,
 "You know what? I've done really well with leadership, crazy cycle. I've gotten a lot of
 traction on that. Culture and the company is phenomenal and I've taken years to work on that. And they
 want to pour into themselves into this kind of life teaching because they want to get past these things.
 We're talking about today that, and one of the biggest things is self-protection. There are so many
 ways that leaders and people learn to self-protect overwhelmingly because of concerns and fears about
 man. And losing worth to man or fear of man or insecurities or we've been, we've experienced stuff. So think
 about, you know, you're a leader. You're also just a human being. That's experienced stuff that has
 a root system that may not have had the greatest start bringing that you may have experienced
 some really difficult things that you may view people, not in a great way. You may view people as
 something to protect yourself from rather than to lead to success in your business. So you can get triggered
 and you can be trained to protect yourself in all kinds of different ways that only allows you to only go
 so far in safe tough conversations or only allows you to lead people so well. And if you think about it,
 like you said, we're all humans, we're all dealing, we all have root systems, we all have struggles,
 we all have worth issues. There's all these things that we deal with. And then we get a title.
 A title of leading people and one of the things that we discover most when it comes to leaders is
 the mask is there because there's this massive fear of being found abroad. So many leaders
 the self-protection jumps in because they're so worried about people recognizing that they're
 fraughts. Hey, here's the truth. We all are. We're all struggling through learning how to lead people,
 how to become great, how to make other people great. But in those early days, if you don't have the tools,
 then you put this thing on yourself of saying, man, if somebody finds out and the truth is what we
 talk about all the time is your team already knows. People already know. Get past that part. Let's move
 into what does it look like to be a great leader? So ripping that mask off of that fear of not being,
 the fear of being found out and focusing on that self-protection. What's number two?
 Number two is self-centeredness. This is one that some people may hear that and be like,
 "Oh, I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not." Especially if you're familiar with this,
 can you're a high-ess personality, you would never describe yourself probably as being self-centered.
 No, that's what other people are. But really look at just what the words mean. Go to the actual
 definition. What do you do that causes you to put yourself at the center of your focus? Sometimes that's
 fear. Sometimes it's not that. It doesn't have to be puffing yourself up. Exactly. It doesn't have to be that.
 But all these things that, especially with self-protection, that cause us to become self-centered.
 And so if I am a fearful leader, I am self-centered and that I won't go lead and have this tough
 conversation or I won't have meetings with my team. I won't cast a vision because no way am I
 going to put myself out there because I'm probably going to fail to lead us there anyway. These are all
 things where the focus is on you. So not taking risks. Absolutely. Not risks out of control. Yeah,
 absolutely. But then you have the other side where you do have that leader that can be
 egotistical, that can be prideful, that can be that will gladly put themselves at the center of everything.
 When I go to the core of what we teach, a core principle is that leadership is not about you.
 It's about making other people successful. When you can transition to that, it's amazingly relieving.
 It takes all this pressure off of you because oftentimes we have to think I have to look like this
 leader. And I have to be this leader. Especially if I'm going to put that title on,
 that's why some people are more comfortable with the title of manager. It's like the pressure is less.
 It's like people aren't expecting as much of me. If I say I'm a leader, that denote something
 entirely different to some people, which can trigger all kinds of things that causes to be self-centered.
 Yeah, I think we find that the same with business owners who don't consider themselves to be entrepreneurs.
 Well, that's a different class. No, it's the same thing. It's just a different word for it, right?
 Well, those are people that are, you know, go out and do all kinds of crazy risky things.
 Whenever you're focused on you and you're not focused on helping people to be great,
 then you're always having to go back to number one. Self-protect. I can't be out of control.
 I can't take a risk set or too big. I can't fail. So again, that drives that focus on self.
 So when we come back, the third way that leaders hold themselves back in leadership and in life.
 That's coming up next.
 Freedom. It's so powerful. I don't review the name and I'm all renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So I was very comfortable there. That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it. It's going to be hard. It's going to be even better on the other side.
 For me, it was just a very refreshing and I want to say life giving to me. It really was.
 You know, I would go to the next level of life again and probably again and probably again because it's
 so powerful. I want you to ask yourself a question. Could you hear the sense of hope and freedom
 in their voices just then? I want you to know that could be you. Look, it's easy to get trapped
 and old habits, negative thought patterns and unhealthy relationships. It's going to take some work.
 But yes, there is hope for you. If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation,
 the same kind of self-awareness and freedom that they have or maybe you're just curious what
 the process would look like for you then head on over to Chrissacordo.com/nextlevellife.
 So before the break, we were talking about the first two ways that leaders hold themselves back
 from both leadership and life. Remember, the stems from a core issue that leaders have and folks in general,
 which is refusing to do the deep painful work of really knowing themselves. All of you,
 hi, S, is out there. You're very introspective, but it's still being very introspective. It doesn't
 mean that we've gotten to the tools. We've gotten to the information of how to change it. You're just
 very aware of yourself. So with all of that being said, we've hit number one and number two, what is number three?
 So number three is self-sabotage. This is the one that's heartbreaking.
 I can look back at myself and see all the different ways that I have self-sabotage just in my life,
 let alone as a leader, especially in the think back all the leadership roles I have when I was
 with a civilian with the Air Force. This is a heartbreaking one in ways because you think about what
 those words mean. You are sabotaging you. No one else is doing it. You're doing it to yourself.
 And this is an incredibly root system driven, especially those of us or those of you who come from
 difficult paths that have been trained to believe that you're unworthy. You're only deserving of those so much.
 The lies that we can tell ourselves, they're on the order of self-hate. This is human stuff.
 And this is the stuff that is probably my most heartbreaking stuff that we help people walk through,
 but it's also some of the stuff that's the most amazing when you see people on the other side of it.
 The freeingness of freeingness that I just make that up on the free dumb of being able to go. To see
 those things have tools to deal with it and then start walking it out is just phenomenal. But I remember
 gosh, I think it may have been the 2016 event and I think it was you who shared this with me that we had a
 client who wouldn't come to the event because they said that I don't deserve that event.
 And I think you not just stood there with just broken hearts realizing that a human being looked at
 themselves and said, I'm not worthy to come to an event that's going to teach me the tools and things
 I need to become a better version of myself. And it was just this terrible self-sabotaging lie.
 And we've seen that multiple times. We've seen that people don't deserve spouses that say, well,
 you know, my spouse deserves to go to next level of life, but I don't deserve that. You know, I'm not in that.
 Ugh, it's just that is so heartbreaking. So such a powerful piece on what you're going to be teaching.
 Yeah, I think one of the things just to build on that a little bit is that we have a lot of,
 we have a lot of leaders that send people through next to a life. And it's for these very reasons right here.
 It's because of self-protection, because of self-sabotage, that leaders are seeing this stuff.
 Our leaders who've been with us for a long time, they're so attuned to these things now.
 And they can see them in their people, but they can also see through it. And they can see the potential
 of people who they're leading and they see every day. And they are investing a tremendous amount
 into their people, sending them here and hopes that they're going to find relief,
 and find hope, and find freedom, and help them overcome, not just snap of a finger, wave of a magic wand,
 overcome these things, because what we teach you have to practice. But if this is you and there are
 you know people who are on your team that need this kind of information, highly consider bringing them
 to this event, because they can come and sit through this entire day and that they get this heavy
 teaching on improving their life and overcoming these things, look at the potential decision of investing
 in those people, and then having them sit with you for the rest of the event, because what we're
 teaching even in the leadership track is still so heavy on growing you as an individual, because that's
 where leadership starts, starts with you. I think it's so powerful for us to see as you just mentioned,
 leaders will come through, business owners will come through, when you are focused on you, when you don't
 know your root system, when you don't know your service level response is when you don't understand
 the lies you tell yourself, when you don't have the tools, you're doing these three things.
 No matter what level of leadership you're at, how spectacular you are as a human being,
 you're still struggling in these areas, and you still struggle afterwards, you just have tools to deal
 with. But I think it's like you say as a leader, so many leaders go back, look at their team members and go,
 oh my gosh, if only, if you can get this information and get these changes in your life, and that's why
 we're doing this here, and so we're so proud of all those leaders and business owners that
 after having gone through, aren't focused on themselves, they're going, okay, I need to make me better,
 they're actually stopping and going, forget that, man, if I can make my team members better,
 if I can help them, if I can, you know, throw out a rescue line, then maybe they can get these changes and
 help themselves. And then in turn, man, the leader in the business is blessed, because now you have
 somebody who's not struggling as much in these areas, and they have tools to get through them,
 as well as dealing with other folks. So what should people do if this is resonated with them today?
 So the next step is to go to Chrissacardo.com/nextlevelleadership. There's a whole information page there,
 if you want to come to this event, just use the form, just click the button, it'll shoot a form over
 to me an air, and we'll get in touch with you and get you all set up from there. Okay, and what if somebody
 decides they would like to get more information on next level of life? Go to Chrissacardo.com/nextlevellife.
 Excellent. And yeah. Lots of information, folks, if you follow this for any decent
 amount of time, you understand our hearts, we want to help in every way possible to help you to have
 the strongest and most perspective gathered life you possibly can because when you have great
 perspective, you can make great decisions. Well, folks, hopefully this has helped you today.
 As always, we want you to take this information, change your leadership, change your business,
 change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]