 Why fear is such a powerful force in today's world?
 How each of us wrestles with fear at some level
 and how we can take steps towards overcoming fear?
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show,
 where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do,
 not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day, wherever you are, I am.
 I'm having a fabulous day because joining me in the studio today
 is the lovely and talented and drop dead gorgeous
 and amazing and phenomenal.
 You're winning Brownie Point.
 That's me.
 Do you think anybody thinks I'm talking about Joel?
 No, not at all.
 I'm talking about the amazing Mrs. Lecard
 and we're going to welcome Baby, welcome to the show.
 So good to have you in.
 It's always a delight to have my wife and fellow farmer
 on the show with me.
 That's good to be here.
 I'm excited.
 It's good to have you here.
 So if you didn't know that we are farming
 and that's just a piece of what's actually going on
 at the ridge and the things that we're doing to,
 we feel God is adding a next level.
 Next level, hey, there you go.
 That's you, the point main group of creating this even greater
 atmosphere for people to come and get their lives changed
 and an even deeper life change and crazy thing.
 We haven't even built it up yet.
 We're already seeing amazing life changing things happen up there.
 Go back to episode 452, which is the story of the ridge.
 So with that said, we're in the middle of a powerful mini series
 that is teasing out some of the core concepts
 that we're going to tackle at this year's next level leadership live event,
 which is coming up soon.
 So you need to make sure that you get your tickets
 and plan to join us here in Nashville.
 So listen, if you're a business owner or leader,
 this event was designed for you.
 This is our premiere once any year event
 that is open to the public, so you don't want to miss it.
 This year we have even more of what you love,
 both the leadership and the life sessions.
 So go to crsacrote.com/nexleveledorship.
 That's one word to reserve your seats today.
 Okay, when we come back,
 why fear dominates our culture today,
 how we all wrestle with fear at some level
 and what we can do to take an active stand against it.
 That's coming up next.
 (upbeat music)
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time,
 then you know the number one issue
 when it comes to business, when it comes to family,
 when it comes to friendships,
 is having a lack of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning
 in every aspect of your life,
 it all starts with having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication
 is to understand your personality style
 and to understand the personality style
 of the folks that you're spending the most time with.
 Whether it be at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to crsacrote.com/store
 and get your personality profile and personality profiles
 for your team to die.
 Get it for your family members, today.
 As you go through that profile,
 you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to crsacrote.com/store2day.
 (upbeat music)
 Give us a little bit of background of you.
 What people need to know about you
 when it comes to this topic of fear.
 - Yeah, well, for those of you that have taken the disc test,
 I am a high S and so.
 - Decently high C.
 - Decently high C.
 - Desire to be a high I.
 - Yes, it's my dream to be a high I, but you know,
 I struggle with fear.
 This is a great topic for me to be teaching on
 because it's something that we've been working on
 with me for a long time.
 And my personality is one that is timid
 and struggles with fear.
 And with my past, there were some things that have happened
 in my past that have created this level of fear
 and anxiety that I struggled with.
 So, yeah, I think when I first met you so many years ago,
 you know, I always say you were a shell of a woman.
 There was this woman who, you know,
 you were not your authentic self.
 There wasn't, you're very guarded.
 Didn't let people in.
 Not much of you came out.
 You did your thing and that was it.
 You could see you wouldn't take on risks.
 - Yeah, I operated from such a state of fear
 that it just felt like I was walking around on egg shells,
 you know. - You may fail at anything.
 - Because I could fail.
 - Yeah, that was a risk.
 - I would disappoint people because a fear of the unknown.
 Like it was unfamiliar territory.
 And so I didn't want to take a risk
 because if I did and I failed, what did that say about me?
 And what would other people think of me?
 And so I just lived in this box of only do things
 that I know that I'm confident with,
 that won't get me in trouble so to speak with other people.
 And it caused me to not live authentically,
 to not live all out.
 - Yeah.
 And again, without going into details,
 you got some pretty crappy things that happened to you.
 Traumatic things.
 One thing especially is a very difficult situation
 in life that could create.
 I mean, it's interesting as your husband to see
 how that's what you've overcome it, which is great.
 But just a situation with guns that was so fearful for you.
 And just the fear of being around them
 and experiencing things.
 And the overcoming that were last night,
 we had a situation where we got home
 and counties were like a hundred feet away.
 - Right there.
 - They were right there on top of some of our goats and stuff.
 And you're like, you got your gun?
 It's like, here we go.
 Let's go.
 - Let's do it.
 - But it was just interesting that you've had
 some traumatic experiences that you've had to overcome.
 The crazy thing is, fear doesn't just come
 or stay as a result of going through rough times.
 It's not the incident that you experienced on that specifically.
 You wouldn't know all of a sudden just develop fear
 because of that one situation.
 - Yeah, I didn't wake up one day
 and just became fearful.
 Like, everybody deals with fear.
 And everybody's experiences and their past
 and their things that have influenced them
 all create different fears.
 So I may have a fear of the unknown
 or fear of man's opinion
 or what people think of me or fear of failure,
 which is such a huge thing.
 You don't struggle with the same fears necessarily
 that I do, but our responses tend to be the same.
 Whatever that fear is.
 And so understanding what your fears are
 and being able to recognize those is so huge
 and just being able to overcome that fear.
 - Yeah, that is so true.
 Before we dive into helping people to have some information
 to solve this, and again, you're gonna be teaching
 a whole lesson on this at the next level leadership
 live event.
 First off, what is fear?
 First fear is obviously not all bad.
 - Right.
 - You know, God gave us instinct for a reason.
 And so there is some fear that is healthy.
 There's the healthy warning sign.
 - Coyotes at the gate of your goats.
 - Right, right, or being chased by a lion.
 Or, you know, there is some fear that is good for us
 because it's our body's signal to,
 hey, kick in, run away, or stay in fight.
 It's that fight or flight.
 So that piece of it is normal and healthy.
 What's unhealthy when it comes to fear
 is the past circumstances and not keeping those things in check
 and then responding based on what you think
 or perceive.
 - That's assume.
 - And assume, right, to be reality.
 That's where fear can get unhealthy.
 - So is that creating this situation in your mind
 that could happen?
 It might possibly happen, but the percentage
 of it actually happening is what?
 - I mean, it's slim to none.
 I mean, think about all the times
 that we've operated in a state of fear
 and those things did not happen.
 - Gosh, it is a billion.
 How many times, like even just the situation
 of like coyotes at the fence?
 That's only happened once.
 We've heard them, but it's only happened once.
 But there are times where somebody experiences
 something in life as a fearful situation
 and then they do 10,000 assumptions over the years
 of what might happen.
 You know, this person's opinion of me,
 this person's judgment of me.
 Oh my gosh, if I fail, what if I fail,
 what if what if everything's these, what ifs?
 And the crazy thing is, go ahead.
 - Yeah, and then that becomes your,
 your go to, that becomes so ingrained in you
 that then each time that feeling or that fear comes up
 it's one less step backwards that you take to guard,
 to protect, to not take risk, to hold yourself back
 and missed opportunities, how many missed opportunities
 and things happen over the course of our lives
 because we're making decisions based off of fear or what ifs.
 - Yeah, you pointed something out just a few seconds ago
 about how so much of the fear we create
 is based off of situations that we've experienced
 in life, right?
 So we can have a bad situation in life
 and then create a thousand assumptions
 that that might happen again or something
 - Right, because the fear feels the same, right?
 When that fear comes up, you're like,
 oh wait, I remember this.
 Your brain automatically goes to,
 yeah, remember this time back here.
 This is what it's like, so,
 yeah, you attribute it to that past fear
 or to that past situation.
 How many times do we go back and look at the countless number
 of times we assumed fear and it didn't come true?
 - I think we don't do that as often as we should.
 - Which, yeah, guys, not even remote.
 - Because what happens when we get through the fear
 and then nothing bad happens, we just move on with it.
 - We're just excited that nothing bad happened.
 - We never go back and analyze what happened,
 how did I respond, why did I respond that way?
 We just move forward.
 And so I think that's the piece of leaving that fear on check
 where we start to make bad decisions.
 - I think everybody can agree.
 If you look at the number of fearful situations
 that actually happened, that created the ability
 for us to assume fearful situations in the future
 and compare that to the number of times
 we assumed fear and it didn't happen,
 that it is like 0.001% actual situations that happened
 compared to the number of assumptions that we've had.
 It's just such a tiny amount,
 but we don't go back and think,
 this hasn't happened, this hasn't happened to me,
 this situation hasn't come up.
 Or this is a ridiculous fearful thought.
 And so I think that's, I love that you're teaching this
 because there's so many tools in how to actually capture that thought,
 switch this thing around gain quality perspective,
 focus on logic instead of emotion and so on and so forth.
 So why is it so difficult to recognize,
 especially in ourselves?
 I mean it's easy for us to see it in other people,
 but why is it so difficult in us?
 - Yeah, it's forced to have it.
 I mean, we've trained ourselves over the years
 to respond that way, right?
 And then what happens when we go to fear?
 You know, I know what happens in my mind.
 I automatically start running through worst case scenario.
 You know, and I think the worst thing is going to happen.
 And then my brain gets stuck there.
 - How fast can you jump to worst case scenario?
 - Oh, super fast.
 Super fast.
 You know, even the sheep the other day,
 we gave them some grain and not some grain.
 - The heart, I'll fall upon that day.
 We gave them some alpha pellets and I didn't moisin it
 and it's cold out and so they choked
 and they were foaming at the mouth
 and I just freaked out.
 And I'm taking worst case scenario,
 I'm gonna lose all my sheep and you know,
 this is it, this is the end.
 And I've done this.
 - I just killed them.
 - I just killed them.
 You know, like the pertinent.
 - My brain automatically goes to the worst case scenario
 instead of being able to stop and process through
 in that moment.
 Which is interesting, if you look at,
 look at our emergency response team.
 - Right.
 - You know, look at somebody who's in the military
 or our police officers or somebody working the our room.
 They still have that same fear,
 that same adrenaline is shooting through their veins.
 It's still pumping in them,
 but they have been able to train themselves to stop
 and process through that and think rationally.
 Where we take the habit of going to fear.
 - It's case scenario.
 - Worst case scenario.
 - Which is irrational thought.
 - And then we are stuck in that irrational cycle.
 - And why is that irrational?
 Why is going to worst case scenario irrational
 for a person to be focusing on?
 - Because when you freak you freeze,
 it was like with me with the sheep.
 Instead of me going, okay, what's going on right now?
 What are the steps that I need to do?
 Who can I reach out to?
 What are my resources?
 Instead of processing through all those things?
 - What you did, it just took you.
 - It just took me a second.
 I got stuck in the--
 - You're making it shock.
 - Goodness, I'm killing my sheep.
 They're gonna die.
 But I mean, it's something that happens with you now,
 which is so phenomenal compared to who you were years and years ago, right?
 The person years and years ago would have just shut down.
 - I wouldn't have been able to process through that.
 - And within a few seconds, it's funny to see you just,
 "Oh my gosh, and you grab your phone."
 - He's like, "Okay, right?"
 - Because the goal is my best friend.
 - Go go have your life.
 - Here comes the high seed, right?
 Google's gonna help me save my sheep.
 And crazy enough, you went from worst case scenario
 and probably about,
 I don't know, six seconds, maybe 10 seconds at the most later,
 okay, what do I do?
 You were able to shift, which is not where you were,
 you know, 15 years ago, gosh, how long's it been?
 It's not where you were so long ago, right?
 You've been able to actually,
 it doesn't mean that the fear goes away.
 - No, I mean, that my heart rate was still up,
 you know, I'm flush,
 I'm feeling that adrenaline pump through me,
 but I'm able to now stop and go,
 what can I do?
 What are my options?
 Where are my resources?
 You know, and run through that checklist
 of theirs options.
 Don't go to worst case scenario.
 What can I do right now?
 - All right, don't freak because then you can't think,
 you can't operate well.
 And that is something that we teach so much here,
 when you freak you freeze,
 when you're in an actual fearful.
 So that's a legit fearful situation, right?
 That's not something, you were obviously,
 you were creating the worst case scenario in your mind,
 so there was those assumptions.
 But this is a situation where you're watching
 something happen in front of you.
 So this is that combo of a, it's a legit fear.
 Something actually is happening.
 You're not assuming, you know,
 all of the fear that we normally experience in life is,
 I shouldn't do this because of the 14,000 things
 that could possibly happen.
 And instead, you know, this was a great thing
 to watch my wife very quickly.
 Grab hold, stop, do what you need to do.
 Don't freak, don't freeze, solve the problem.
 - Yeah, and again, if you look at your nurses
 or your physicians that are working in ER room,
 everything that comes through those doors is not,
 you know, they, there are new things that happen all the time,
 new crisis is that happen.
 And what do they do?
 They don't freak and freeze, they assess, stop, assess,
 take steps to move.
 - What are my options?
 - What are my options? - What do you do?
 - What's most important?
 - Right.
 - Yeah, absolutely.
 So we are completely aware that everybody out there
 deals with some level or wrestles,
 at some level with fear as well.
 First question, where's it come from?
 - Well, there's two areas that fear comes from, right?
 I mean, it's the, hey, there's a lie in chasing me
 and the fear of getting away.
 I mean, that's the fight, that's the fight,
 that's what God has equipped us with.
 And then there's the fear that comes from Satan, right?
 - And to see where. - The lies,
 the what ifs, the, the irrationality,
 the assumptions and, you know, lack of truth,
 that's happening in our minds,
 'cause man we can create some crazy, crazy scenarios.
 - Oh my gosh.
 - Of what ifs.
 - I don't know if I want to know how many,
 crazy what ifs and areas I've created in 51 years.
 Can you ever get free of it?
 - I wouldn't say you can get free from fear.
 It's always gonna be there, right?
 You can overcome it with the right tools,
 you know, being able to stop in that moment
 and gain some perspective on what's real,
 what's not real, what are the lies that I'm telling myself
 and use that perspective to make decisions.
 That's using the tools that you're equipped with.
 - Well yeah, and you gotta get the tools.
 You gotta learn, that's why you're teaching this.
 - We gotta learn the problem.
 - You gotta learn.
 - But if I don't create that habit,
 - Exactly.
 - It's useless.
 - I've never asked you this, which is so funny.
 But like I say, I tell people,
 I whenever I'm teaching somebody about how to overcome the lies
 or get rid of the fear and everything,
 the thing that I do in my brain is I have to go to
 a forceful knock-off, stop it, shut up.
 You know, one of those things to shock my brain
 because I have learned that if I don't attack it quickly,
 for me, this is me and I think this works for a lot of folks,
 but I've never asked you what you do.
 I've learned for me that if I can shock my brain like that,
 I go straight into logical, I get out of emotional,
 and I go to this stupid, stop, focus.
 You know, I can shift myself into that logic,
 and I have to bring the truth in.
 I have to start telling that, I have to attack the lies
 with the truths, and which is also another phenomenal process
 that we teach people how to do.
 But I have to shock myself, what do you do?
 How do you shift from that emotional, fearful situation
 into a logical, let me process through this?
 Yeah, I don't know if I internally yell at myself,
 but there's definitely a--
 You do sometimes externally, that's hilarious.
 That's a hell or knock it off.
 Knock it off.
 That is awesome.
 Sometimes I need to hear myself, verbally.
 That's the other end.
 Yes, if I call myself by my middle name,
 first in middle name, then you know that I'm battling with some fear.
 That is so funny.
 Yep, you absolutely do that.
 I don't know why, but that's my--
 that gives me the wake up to go, okay.
 Logical goals.
 Get out of the machine, go to the--
 That's the problem.
 What do I need to do?
 Yeah, absolutely.
 So has this process been easier hard for you over the years?
 It's hard.
 You know, it's been so ingrained in me my whole life.
 That I still struggle with it.
 And it's--
 You know, since we've gotten the farm and the animals,
 I'm seeing it more--
 Life is on the--
 Has one life is on the line.
 Two, I'm operating outside of my comfort zone.
 You run a whole lot of that stuff out there.
 When you're outside of your comfort zone,
 and there's so much unknown, and it feels so out of control,
 that that fear can easily creep in.
 And so I have to keep it in check of going, stop,
 what's going on, what's truth, where am I lacking in knowledge?
 What are my resources, and use those tools every single time?
 Yeah, it's funny.
 I was-- what was I doing, Stratplan?
 I think it was when you were going through a situation
 out there.
 And I just had to--
 for me, I just had to leave.
 Come to work.
 This is-- so for me, I try to get Sunday
 as a workday for us out there.
 We honor Sabbath, so Sunday's our first day of the week.
 And so that's a workday for us.
 And then I try to have possible get a Tuesday.
 And if possible, that's the day--
 I can usually spend some time up there
 getting things moving for the point main group up there.
 Otherwise, I'm here at the office tackling things
 or trying to doing events, whatever.
 Man, that was a lot of information.
 But I remember having to leave and just go, hey,
 this is all you.
 This is-- you got to handle this.
 This situation that was going on, because you're the one
 who's leading that process out there
 and taking care of everything.
 And I remember getting to work and just in prayer
 for you, prayer for the situation, all that kind of stuff,
 just realizing and feeling like God was saying,
 no, she needs to experience this.
 She needs to go through this.
 This is a massive growth moment.
 I don't know if it was massive.
 But it was a pretty big growth moment for you
 to experience this stuff that you had to experience
 and how to lead yourself to that situation
 and lead Brian or team member up there.
 And all the situation that happened.
 Brian, go see.
 Brian, go see.
 Yeah, too.
 Yeah, I think that was probably the least of your concerns,
 but still having to deal with again, another life
 threatening situation that you had to deal with.
 And I just remember being happy and proud
 that I wasn't there, that that was something
 that you were going to go through.
 You're going to deal with it.
 You're going to tackle it and overcome your own fears
 in those situations.
 Yeah, and I think it's timely.
 I think with this lesson that we're teaching and spring
 and the fact that I'm the one teaching it,
 I think God is definitely stretching me even more.
 Because again, if you operate in a state of your world
 and this is comfortable and you only do the things that are comfortable
 and you don't take risks and things can become easy.
 And so with controlled.
 Right.
 And then we go and get animals and now it's not controlled.
 And so I'm experiencing, oh, here's that fear that I was doing
 pretty good here for a while.
 I had a good stretch because everything was comfortable.
 And I knew what I was doing and every day had a rhythm.
 And you know, you get in this rhythm of,
 I don't want to say complacency because it's not like
 complacency, but it's comfort.
 It's comfort, right?
 And so it's just a good stretching.
 It is muscles.
 It is fun and funny when you recognize that God has
 shift that a face.
 You know, he's moving you into a different face.
 There's a different time.
 There's a different thing going on.
 There's a different growth piece that he wants to walk us through.
 And we've been experiencing this, well, obviously forever
 our whole lives.
 But so much has happened in the last four years.
 I mean, like just monumentally compared to other times
 in my life, I'm assuming the same for you, which I shouldn't
 assume that.
 But there are so many phase changes that have happened.
 And it's not, it's not like sometimes God has done that
 hay turn right here thing in my life.
 This is adding to adding to, adding to, I'm going to have you
 go through this process to get some of the stuff out of you,
 to shake some of the stuff out of you, to get rid of this, to
 strengthen you, to do whatever because the next face.
 And then you get in the next face, like, OK, I'm glad I went
 through all that.
 That was tough.
 Difficult.
 But hey, I'm in the next phase.
 Then it's like, oh, we're not even remotely close to done.
 Now let's do this and get rid of this and change this.
 And let me kick in the teeth here because it's going to help you.
 As you do this piece, and just phase after phase.
 And so I love to do that with you.
 I love experiencing that.
 All right, when we come back, what you can do,
 starting today to move away from fear and into more freedom.
 It's so powerful.
 I don't rejuvenate it.
 I'm almost renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an
 ounce of judgment.
 So I was very comfortable there.
 I had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it.
 It's going to be hard for us to be even better on the other side.
 For me, it was just very refreshing.
 And I want to say life, give me, and really was.
 You know, I would go to the next level of life again and probably again and
 probably again because it's so powerful.
 I want you to ask yourself a question, could you hear the sense of
 hope and freedom and their voices just then?
 I want you to know that could be you.
 Look, it's easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns and
 unhealthy relationships.
 It's going to take some work, but yes, there is hope for you.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of
 self-awareness and freedom that they have, or maybe you're just curious what the
 process would look like for you, then head on over to Chrissacordo.com/nextlevellife.
 Okay, so I've got two more questions for you.
 We have got to learn to rationally determine whether our response is appropriate to the
 gravity of the situation or whether our anxiety is driving unhealthy behavior.
 There's many times, and we've done this, we do this here, where somebody is going through
 a situation or freaking out or super-fearful or whatever.
 And there's a couple of tools that I'll use with somebody in the moment where I'll say,
 hey, what is the level of fear you're experiencing that this is going to happen?
 And almost always the answer is seven or eight.
 And then I'll walk them through, okay, well, what happens if it does?
 What if it does happen?
 How bad would it be?
 And when somebody has time to stop and think about it, usually the perspective gathering, they
 come up with it, like, well, it probably is too.
 Okay, so even if it does actually happen, it's really not that bad.
 Yeah, that's true.
 Another thing that we help people to experience or gain perspective on, whatever that fearful
 thing is, most of the time it's not dealing with the death of an animal that's right in front
 of you.
 Most of the time it's not dealing with something that's come to eat your animal, coyotes
 have come to eat your animal.
 Most of the time, people aren't dealing with that stuff.
 Most of the time, probably 99.9% of the time, it's men's opinion.
 It's fear of men, it's fear of judgment, it's fear of failure.
 It's all of these pieces.
 And the crazy thing is, is one of the tools all uses, hey, you're going through this, you're
 creating all this assumption, you're super fearful, you're super worried, all this, hey,
 do you know that somebody's getting their head cut off somewhere in the world today?
 Do you know that somebody is losing a loved one right now somewhere on the planet today?
 Question for you, is your response equal to the potential of this assumption that you're experiencing,
 right?
 Or even is your response equal to what's actually happening?
 And when somebody can gain that perspective, let's bring it back into a good level of reality.
 Is this thing that I'm so fearful of?
 Then the response usually is, oh my gosh, this is nothing.
 This is nothing in the grand scheme.
 So question for you, you talked about what it's taken for you to move towards freedom in a way
 from fear.
 What would you say to someone who's listening and maybe struggling with fear right now?
 What to do right now?
 Yeah, I think for me what I would do first is take inventory of--
 - Yeah. - Game that perspective.
 Hey, what are things that I'm fearful of?
 You know, and why am I fearful of those things?
 Why am I afraid to fail?
 What is the lie that I'm telling myself in that moment?
 Yeah.
 Because without that--
 without that perspective, you're kind of--
 Waiting on the situation to happen.
 - Yeah. - What would you say?
 - I mean-- - Yeah, so that's where I would start.
 Sit down, take some inventory.
 What are the things in your life that you are fearful of?
 Or what situations in the past?
 Did you respond in a fearful way?
 That'll give you some great insight into, hey,
 you know, I responded into fear out of these situations
 that on the backside of it was unnecessary, why?
 And you can take, you know, gain some great perspective
 from those experiences on how you react in those situations
 and what your habits tend to be.
 Because you'll start to see patterns and habits that you have there.
 Once you know those, then you can start calling them out,
 then it becomes, say, in the moment.
 - I normally do X. - Right.
 - What can I do differently this time?
 - Yeah, and usually for me, it's I normally do X.
 And so I'm going to--
 - For a case of a-- - It's a two turn completely opposite
 and go the other way.
 You know, make the opposite decision.
 - If we just take it down to it's most basic form,
 if you go to worst case scenario
 and you can't think and process
 because you're in worst case scenario,
 then you're missing out on the opportunity for this to be,
 the least case, you know, the best case scenario
 where you just solve it.
 You just handle it as fast as possible.
 Even that freaking and freezing causes you to delay.
 Where something that could not be that big of a deal
 could turn into.
 - A big deal.
 - Like the other day in a situation
 that you were dealing with literally time was the issue.
 He and solve the problem if you just get it done right now.
 Get to the answer what you did.
 You got to the answer you solved the problem,
 but had you freeze and waited
 even waiting on somebody else to get out there of it
 which was an hour away,
 then chances are it would have become worst case scenario.
 So wrangling a sheep and shoving olive oil down
 throughout that was not a easy task to do at all
 actually most likely say a life.
 - Right.
 - So like you're saying instead,
 recognizing what you would normally do
 and changing probably save the life right there.
 Powerful.
 So last question, and just a few weeks
 we'll be at the next level leadership live event
 and you're gonna be talking about overcoming fear.
 What else can people expect from this lesson?
 - Yeah, this is, I'm super excited to teach this.
 It's gonna be powerful.
 I mean, you and I just scratched the surface today
 on overcoming fear.
 So in the lesson at the event,
 we'll walk through what are the tools that you need.
 Because it's one thing to take the inventory.
 It's one thing to understand your fears,
 but if you don't do anything with it,
 if you don't have the tools to change,
 nothing's gonna happen.
 And so we're gonna walk through all those pieces at the event.
 - Yeah, I'm so excited about it.
 Everybody always comments every time you teach
 at the event, there's an awful gosh,
 Heather was fabulous.
 - And just so you know, I have fear.
 (laughing)
 And I'm walking through these steps
 and I will walk through these steps
 probably on stage as well.
 - Yep, my highest high CY goes,
 oh, I hate this and then when you're done,
 you're like, I love doing this.
 This is fabulous.
 And it's just the same thing.
 It's that fear thing and you have to walk through it
 and then you know, switch it around.
 - Right.
 - You know, use the tools, tackle it,
 get up there and do what, you know,
 what helps people, what God's calling you to do.
 Folks, every one of us deals with fear and anxiety
 on some level.
 There's nobody who doesn't.
 Sometimes we can recognize it.
 Sometimes we need help to see it.
 Here's what you need to recognize in your world.
 Our world right now is dominated by fear.
 You see fear, mongering happening everywhere.
 You see fear situations happening everywhere.
 There's all kinds of crap that's going on.
 But you don't have to stick to that.
 You don't have to take part in that.
 In fact, you really can't afford to be controlled by fear.
 Not if you want to live a healthy and productive life.
 So folks, get yourself to the next level leadership
 live event coming up in April.
 Just go to christlacardo.com/nextlevelleadership
 to reserve your seats today.
 Well folks, hopefully this is helped you today.
 Thank you, wife of mine for joining me in the studio today.
 - Oh, well, thank you for having me.
 - It was great.
 - It was fun.
 - I love having you here.
 - I like our little chats.
 - I know.
 - It's like coffee with Chris coming back.
 - Oh my gosh, yeah, no doubt.
 Coffee with Chris and Heather, there you go.
 Well folks, as always, we want you to take this information,
 change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and then join us on the next episode.
 (upbeat music)
 (upbeat music)
 [BLANK_AUDIO]