 While learning to lead yourself has to be a top priority for any leader and what happens when it's not.
 All of that and more is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do,
 not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are today.
 Joining me in the studio again is the incredible the Insatiable.
 The phenomenal.
 I love multi-syllabic descriptors of me.
 Right there can never be enough.
 Joe for their can be.
 They're for the other.
 They're can be.
 Thank you.
 Why do we talk about this show?
 So hey, we're going to dive in.
 You're actually going to take the show and interview me.
 I am.
 But before we do that we've got something super exciting coming up.
 What is that?
 What's coming up is the next level leadership live in this.
 So we've been in this super fun, cool little mini series featuring what hopefully has been a lot of
 great learning for you all but also highlighting different topics that we're going to be teaching
 very in depth. If you've ever been to one of our events we are by no means 30,000 foot view teachers.
 We are how do we literally do this stuff?
 Now let's teach it to be.
 Yeah, exactly.
 We used to.
 Used to teach that 30,000 foot view stuff but what we've discovered every time I used to step off the stage was
 the deeper I could help somebody get to subject the more literally change.
 So my first interview question for you Chris is that oh, that's going.
 Is that if you're at a 30,000 foot view, does that mean the stage was that high and how long
 did it take to get up there?
 Oh, you know, it was quite a climb and then it was a halo jump to get back down.
 You can teach a lot in this few seconds before you crash into people.
 Exactly.
 Goodness.
 Okay.
 We are certified dorks as what we say here.
 So we're going to be talking about this.
 The stuff that we're talking about today is going to be stuff that I'm going to be teaching
 much further in depth at the next level leadership live event.
 So go to crosacrata.com/nextleveledorship to reserve your seats today.
 Okay.
 It's turned over to you, my friend.
 So you know, Chris.
 Yes, I do.
 What do I do?
 So you know, it's not hard to imagine why so many leaders go to conferences and seminars and that focus on
 like sales and marketing and all these things to grow their business.
 Those hard skills.
 There's a lot of a lot of these things that some people will call the soft skills, the leadership that
 we know in decades of teaching leaders, those actually are hard skills because it's like when
 people come through strap plan for instance, they're coming in and like how how to help us fix
 the business, help us grow the business and overwhelmingly they're their taught leadership.
 What a lot of people would think are soft skills, but when you really get into what leadership
 actually is and everything that's involved, you will find it's arguably your greatest leverage within
 your company to grow it is by learning to effectively lead people and all the things that we teach
 there.
 So Peter Drucker, so Peter Drucker wrote in his book Managing One Self.
 He said this, this is a so good.
 Depressed ruthless bosses create toxic organizations filled with negative underachievers.
 But if you're an upbeat inspirational leader, you cultivate positive employees who embrace
 and surround even the toughest challenges.
 So it folks you've probably heard that you've probably heard it said that great leadership starts
 with self leadership and while that's true, it's not usually something that you might hear taught
 in terms of how to self lead.
 So Chris, you've been leading people for decades now.
 You're like a super old man nowadays.
 Well, Joel, it's a little about 1964.
 What do you start?
 One before leadership existed.
 So Chris, you've been leading people for decades now, but when you first started out, you
 probably plugged in some model of leadership.
 Yes, that did.
 Okay, so take us back to those early days for you.
 Many people have never even heard this part of your story, but take us back to those days
 before you really knew how to lead.
 Yeah, well, you know, I just like everybody else.
 I mean, I started off, I don't know if this is like everybody else, but
 you know, I was working ever since I was young, quite young.
 I started gaining a legal paycheck at 14, but my brother now, we're always working.
 We always do stuff, whether or not it was for our family.
 We did stuff to make sure that we were putting food on the table, but we also did odd jobs,
 all kinds of fun stuff, and then got an actual paycheck that wasn't cash, boy, I'm telling
 all kinds of fun stuff here.
 Starting at age 14, and from that point on, it was watching leaders, right?
 It was paying attention to how I was led.
 Had some good leaders, had some crappy leaders during those times, but there's one thing that I think
 I experienced from every leader, and that was people telling me what to do.
 Them having the control of that leadership title in telling me do this, do this, do this, do this,
 do this, do this, do this, know you did that wrong, that was terrible, now that was horrible.
 Nope, fixes over here, all of those kinds of ways of teaching is the stuff that I just
 stored in my brain, that's how you lead people.
 So when I got to each ride, and I got this my first
 technical leadership position, which was the assistant customer service supervisor,
 wasn't even the customer service supervisor, great guy by the name of Dan McRennelts was there at that time.
 I was the assistant, but I was leading people, let me tell you, I did the same thing that I had learned.
 I started telling people, now up into that point, man, I was friends with everybody.
 Everybody, we were friends, we thought great of each other, thought highly of each other.
 When I got that role, and I started doing the things that I had learned or observed other
 leaders doing, all of a sudden, I could see people not like me that much.
 Like, you could see that if their eyes were bright when I was around, that started to get dim.
 And it took me, I don't know how long, but at least a few months, maybe up to six months,
 where all of a sudden I started going, my style of leadership isn't working.
 This doesn't work. People don't like me now, keep in mind, I was also a people pleaser at that
 time, so it wasn't hard for me to recognize I wasn't pleasing people.
 But the leadership side of me started going, this doesn't work.
 And that thought of what never really worked with me, I didn't like that when I was being led that way.
 So let me change things. Let me start asking for input, let me start asking questions.
 Let me start getting people's buy and on stuff.
 So, and I mean, I was at, I was at 20, 21 at that time, so 30, 30, 30,
 plus years ago when that started. But it was a huge moment for me in leadership to learn,
 oh my gosh, so much of what has been modeled for me is not what I should be doing.
 It's just what everybody else has done. So I think that's where I came from. That's the,
 that's the great model of leadership I did plug in. That's why I laughed at that a little bit of go.
 Because I'm not the only one. I think we've all been. I know you've been there to
 probably experience that as well. But yeah, that's how I started my leadership career.
 Well, when we come back, how leaders produce and others what they cultivate in themselves.
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here. I'm the vice president of leadership development on
 Chris's team and I oversee our next level mastermind business coaching program.
 Most business owners and leaders lack a clear path to succeed in business.
 They question whether they're making the right decisions. If they're focusing on the right things to really
 grow their business. If this is you, you need to coach in your life. Coaches help you make better
 decisions, navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively, and grow your business without sacrificing your life
 in your family. In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue
 and an average of 138% increase in net profit and regain hours of time. Our clients stay in the
 program for 3 1/2 years simply because of the results they get. So if you're ready to run your business
 at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting, then visit ChrisCarto.com/mastermind.
 Alright, welcome back to the show everybody. Chris, you were sharing before the break a little bit
 about your story, but your early years of leadership like 50 or 60 years. 30 years ago, something
 like that. I'm interested in knowing when you look back at yourself, what are the main struggles?
 You mentioned you were a people, you had what you had been taught to do, what you had observed and
 other leaders. But what are other struggles looking back? Do you recognize in yourself?
 Yeah, by far, we have a saying around here. It's your job as a leader to make your team successful,
 not the other way around. That literally came from earlier things that I started to see about myself.
 My leadership was about me. Now, I'm a high altruist. I've always loved developing people.
 I've always loved helping people. I jokingly say, I've been teaching people since grade school.
 Just nobody listened to me back then. I've always had the heart to help people, but really
 nobody listened to you when you've got nine years worth of experience of life. But I've always had
 that heart. The problem is, is that coupled with worth struggles, people pleasing, all of that,
 what I found is my leadership was about me. I wanted to lead you to a place that I became successful.
 If I could lead you in a way of you doing the things that I thought was best for you or
 the things that I thought were best for the situation, then eventually I should become great. I should be a
 great leader. Again, I started learning, especially in those very early days, and that just continued
 through job after job and career after career. I kept seeing that what I was trying to do was backfire.
 Even though I got better at it or better at leading, I should say, I kept running into this problem.
 I was still wanting me to, for I was still wanting people to think of me as a great leader. I still
 wanted people to look at me and go, gosh, that guy. It wasn't until God really showed me something super
 powerful. I felt like this was a massive flip of the switch for me back in the mid 90s where God showed
 me, if I'm going to put my people in front of you, it better be about me, not you, it better be about
 what they hear, not what you say. The exact words still to this day, so many years later,
 I can hear it. I remember the hairs raising up on my arms of that moment in my life and just going,
 it's not about me. This isn't about me. That became a powerful turn and started, I really started
 focusing on how do I make people great? How do I make them successful? Not me successful. So I think
 that was probably the biggest struggle that I was experiencing. Because I was experiencing that struggle,
 I must out on what great leadership actually is, right? Instead, I'm still trying to get people to
 accomplish the things the way that I want them to accomplish it. Instead of drawing out of people and
 making them phenomenal and getting their buy and and getting their input and helping them to think
 for themselves and piece after piece after piece later, I couldn't see those things very well. It's not
 that I didn't do it. It's not that I wasn't trying to do it. I was obviously leading people,
 but I was missing that there was so much more to it than I thought. And again, still my experience
 was so much of the leadership that I had before. Once I could get those pieces under control and
 recognize that it wasn't about me, a whole world opened up where I started realizing that leadership
 is so much more than these hard skills that people say, quote unquote, right? And that the soft skills
 are so much more difficult than people can possibly imagine. It's almost contradictory to call them
 soft skills like you were pointing out in the beginning, right? Because this concept of how do I make a
 person great at leading somebody else? Or how do I make them great at their job? But at their role, how do I
 make them communicate? How do I help them? I should remove the make. I can't make anybody. How do I
 help them communicate at levels that cause us to be successful? How do I help them to communicate with
 the personality style that's completely opposite of them? And not look at that person as a jerk and
 somebody just can't get but instead understand them and why they think the way that they do and
 piece that they're peeing. And that's why obviously personality styles became so important. The beginning
 phases of that. How do I help somebody else see the things that I'm learning? Take those on,
 take responsibility for themselves, take responsibility for others and drive people to success. That's
 when that really started to compound like crazy and phenomenally as I continue to lead people, I would
 see both sides. I would see a great leader and by the way funny thing, a little left-turner. People have
 asked me over the years who have been great leaders in your life and it's never who they think.
 They always think I'm going to mention some famous person, somebody that people have put on pedestals,
 all these things and it's never that. It's always that self-efficing person.
 Like what Jim Collins talks about in good to great. It's this person who's not focused on being
 it. It's a person who rips themselves down off of the pedestal. It's the person who says this is not about
 me. Let me help you. Those have always been the great leaders in my life. Those are the people that
 I've seen that they cared more about people than they did themselves. And so I saw that. And then as
 I'm growing massively in my leadership and just leaps and bounds because now I'm freeing myself up from
 it being about me, I'm also seeing even greater levels of that self-centeredness that self-focused.
 Like we talked about in your lesson of that self-sabotage of it's about me. I've got to focus on
 me all that kind of stuff. So that also became something that I got as just created this thing in
 anywhere. I noticed recognized and build off of, "Oh, this is good. How do I do that? How do I get
 there? Hey, here's failure. How do I fix the failure? How do I get beyond the failure? Oh, I'm watching
 somebody else's fell. How do I make sure I never get there? I jokingly say, I learned a whole lot
 by watching a bunch of leaders get nailed with a two-by-four upside the head and I just want, oh, that
 look like it hurt. Don't do that thing. How do I make sure I avoid that? So all of those things are what
 grew into me leading myself recognizing my own faults. And I guess let me throw that on the pile
 as well. One of the big shifts was being able to say, I don't know what the crap I'm doing.
 I don't know how to lead well. I am trying to avoid being recognized as a fraud. And I don't want
 people to see my mistakes. Early on, when I started recognizing that, all of a sudden I could throw
 that out the window. Even in my 20s, I could say screw man's opinion on this. Not completely, but
 way better than I was. This isn't the important thing. This is over here. Gating out of my own way
 was one of the most powerful things that allowed me to lead other people to success. So you're a very relational
 person, you're a very caring person, you're your altruistic, you focus a lot on people, but not everyone's
 that way. So let's say I'm not you. And I'm the pressure-filled, stressed out, business leader,
 business owner that's got ambitious goals that I've got financial goals that I want to achieve.
 And I'm feeling all this pressure and weight to get those because it's just what I want or whatever it may be.
 But I'm hearing this and I'd like, yeah, I'd love to make that transition to lead like how in the way
 that you're learning, but how do you do that? You can't. You should just probably quit.
 You should be back at it. Just back at it. Just be community people. The funny thing is is that there
 are a lot of people in a lot of personality styles. You take the DC personality style, right? Not very
 relational. If they're low-ion S, not very relational, super-task. We have plenty of clients.
 We just had a strat plan with one of the leaders, one of the owners DC personality style that is worked
 just immensely on becoming more relational, right? And the other owner, super-relational person, right?
 So the crazy thing is the thought that somebody tells themselves is, well, I'm not that.
 I can't do that. So give me the tool to do it in a way that fits me. Here's what I'm going to tell you.
 If you don't focus on caring more about other people than yourself and this goes for all situations in life,
 right? Whether it's leadership, whether it's parenting, whether it's guiding, whether it's supporting. It just doesn't matter,
 God created us to love our fellow man, our fellow human beings, right?
 And when we've done that, scripture tells us that, when we've done that, we've actually fulfilled his commands.
 The key is you had to get to a place where you just start practicing. What does it mean to
 care more about somebody else in the situation? What does it mean to attempt to be relational? It doesn't
 mean that you lose all task. It doesn't mean that you completely change you. It means you have two
 options in that situation. Drive the person to do what they're doing through your task focus,
 which is all about you still, right? Well, I still want you to just do the job. You should just do the job,
 just make the job happen. I don't need to come along and create relationship with you.
 Or you can start practicing. What does it mean to be somewhat relational? What does it mean for me to
 care more about this person right now than myself? And start plugging that in and operate from that.
 I think of Bulmic Donald. I never forget. Bo in the next in the mastermind program for a couple
 years kept hearing me say, you've got to kill the leadership crazy cycle. When you do, you can focus on
 leading people to success. Now obviously, I'm summarizing that very in a very short way. But we got
 on a call one day years ago and he goes, he says, Chris, I just spent 30 hours leading people and I'm exhausted.
 And it sounded like he was like, I don't like this, right? He'd he'd he'd he'd he'd go,
 why did I not do this before? You know, it was a rhetorical question. He understood the reason.
 Because I just put it right back on him. I'm like, well, what is the answer? And, you know, he had his
 answers, but it was great for him to go, I should have been doing this the whole time. But in my mind, I was telling
 myself that the things I was doing was more important than this. And when he started leading people
 from that aspect of, you know, getting the killing leadership, he had to kill the leadership crazy
 cycle first. He had to get a bunch of junk office like that. He shouldn't be doing in his role.
 Other people should be doing and then getting in there and leading people and it was just crazy,
 powerful. So I think that's something that every person needs to recognize. Even if they're not there right now,
 start practice, try being, I'm not saying go sit down and have a 30 minute conversation, you know,
 the DC that's got that high eye on their team is probably avoiding them like the plague because, you know,
 they want to have a long conversation and they're just like just do your job, right?
 It's okay to get in there and have a couple minutes of conversation be relational,
 but especially in the leading part. You don't have to have outside conversations with the person,
 although I'm going to tell you that it is a great benefit. Just get in there and be relational in
 the process. Ask questions, ask them what they think about it, ask them what their opinions are.
 Do they, you know, where do they think this thing's going to fail? How do they think it's going to
 succeed? Do they understand their part and how they're going to get there? All of those pieces
 removed the task side of do A, B, and C. And then the other thing I think people need to just
 rip out of their brains is this concept, you know, that has been taught forever. You can't be a friend
 and a leader, right? We've been great friends for G's. I don't know how many years, right?
 That I'm not saying you need to become friends with everybody in your business, but this concept
 that you have to separate any kind of relational side of you to be a leader is absolutely on true.
 You just don't have the tools on how to lead people well, right? Everybody here is my friend,
 but everybody also understands I still have to run this business. I still have to make leadership decisions.
 Everybody on your team is your friend, but they all recognize that you're their leader in the process.
 So when we come back, how leaders produce another what they cultivate in themselves?
 Hey folks, a couple years ago I was visiting with a client and the CEO said to
 me Chris, we're not going to hit our goal. I asked him what he meant and he said,
 we're going to miss our three year revenue goal coming out of Stratpland by a few months.
 I didn't realize it at first that he was having a little fun with me by saying they were about to
 triple their company in less than three years. How freaking awesome is that? Folks, these are the
 kinds of results that businesses get by coming through our four-day Stratpland events. On average,
 we've find two point one million dollars worth of revenue in the next 12 months that the company
 was not planning on. And this event is for all size businesses. If you're small, medium, or large,
 it works for every single business because it's not industry specific. It's about gaining all the
 information about all the things inside of your business that are holding you back from success and then
 giving you a plan and a process on how to walk that out and be successful in your business. By discovering
 the things that are holding you back, it helps you get to all of those goals that you've been
 planning on for a long time. So if you're ready to get the perspective you need to solve what's
 holding you and your business back, so you can grow faster than you need strap plan. To learn more,
 go to Chrissacardo.com/stratpland. That's Chrissacardo.com/stratpland.
 So, Chris of the mini-lessons, you're going to teach at the event here coming up in April. One of those
 lessons is called Healthy Vineyard. It's this super deep leading yourself better lesson.
 So you're going to teach this lesson at the end of the event. It's going to be taught on day three
 with what we teach in this lesson. This is a tough lesson. Why do you want to teach this?
 You know, it's funny that you say this is a tough lesson. I have convinced myself for a long
 period of time that we had a lot of lessons that were actually not that difficult. We don't have a
 single lesson. Do we have any lessons that aren't tough? I think the thing that separates us from the
 30,000 foot view teachers out there is that we teach things that are difficult, it's our goal isn't to teach
 something difficult. I thought these things were actually not that difficult, but it's the things that work.
 It's the things that help people. To teach it from a 30,000 foot view, I feel like is actually
 more hurting than it is helping. It's not enough. It's not getting them to what's the result. So for me,
 my heart is for every single person to have first and foremost a great relationship with God.
 That is my number one. If I can be a part of that, if I can help, praise God Almighty
 because that's what God wants. That's he wants every single one of us to have a phenomenal relationship.
 The other piece is I really, really want people to overcome the crap that's holding them back.
 I want people to, again, since I was a kid, I've been trying to help people to get over stuff.
 It's something that God put in me that this desire to say, listen, there's a better way for that.
 There's rarely do I say it, there's an easier way. There's a better way. There's a better way for you to
 experience life. You can have a stronger marriage. You can have a stronger family. You can have a
 more enjoyable time with family. You can have healthier boundaries in place. You can keep out toxicity.
 There's so many things that you can do to make your life better. But you've got to learn them.
 First, you've got to learn what those things are. You've got to learn the tools. And then you've
 got to learn the most important piece how to apply those tools. How to put those things in place.
 When you do, man does life get considerably better. I'm not talking about TV show,
 better movie better. I'm not talking about, we want to sell a thousand books or a million books
 better. I'm talking about straight up, oh my gosh, I'm positioning myself in a better place to
 not have to deal with toxicity. I'm positioning myself in a better place to have good relationships.
 I'm positioning myself to like myself better. So many people don't like themselves. So many people look
 on the mirror and hate themselves. But when you understand where so much of this stuff is coming from,
 when you put the right tools in place, when you implement that's the other piece that's so important to me.
 Successful people implement. I saw, as long as I looked at online recently, it's funny because
 one of the things that drives me nuts, a couple things I can't stand in life. People who leave their cards.
 People who are in a grocery store and you see somebody picks up something. I don't know what it would be.
 A bag of bread. It's over in one section and then they get over to the artisanal section and they find
 a different style of bread that they want and they put their bread on that counter and they take the new bread.
 Hey, lazy but take the bread back. As always, let's say I've never known a successful person who
 leaves their cart in the aisle. And I'm like, that is such a good truth. I've never known
 somebody who's successful who doesn't implement the things that helps them to get to success.
 I've never known somebody to be successful. We've very rarely have we ever had somebody come in
 and just be like, nope, I don't want to do this stuff. Everybody at some level has implemented and
 those that have knocked it out of the park have been the folks that said, I have to. I have to implement.
 I got to get this done in my life. So that is another reason for me to teach us lesson is to help
 people go back and implement this in their lives. Yeah, I love that and confession time.
 A long time ago, it's like I have been that guy like in my past. I do that now. The Bobbin the guy who's
 like taken the nature like bread and then been like shoot because I'm a high eye. Think about it.
 I'm going to go over here. I'm going to go over here. I want this for Kasha bread now. I don't want
 what I picked up. I'm going to leave this right here and head on out. So hey, there's been transformation
 of mine. But now everybody knows. Oh, love it. That's a nice thing.
 With Joel. And then the excuses or like what do we say on that? It's job security for somebody else.
 Like as if you're doing that really like helps somebody keep their job. But I convinced myself that I did.
 That my laziness is okay. That is awesome. If anyone sees me do that nowadays in the grocery store
 just call me out. I give you permission. Absolutely. So now thank you for this and thank you for
 all that you share, especially so much of your story and in your heart as a leader.
 These, this is, you know, a mountain. This is me as your friend. Those are those are the things that
 I love about you. But I love being able to be on this team. You have to learn this style of leadership
 because of how it's blessed my life and it's helped me become a better leader of people and help me
 focus on the right goals. So thank you for your leadership. And obviously it wouldn't exist if you weren't
 an implementer. If you hadn't stopped putting the bread on the wrong shelf. Yeah, we're going to create a hole.
 We have to create a hole. The leadership prints a lot of that. Hey, there's two kinds of people in life.
 Those who lead exactly. So folks, I really hope you get yourself to the next level leadership
 live in an April. If you want more information or you want to sign up go to crissacurdo.com/nexavoledorship.
 Again, crissacurdo.com/nexavoledorship to reserve your seats today. So Chris, thank you so much for
 being on the Joel Fortner Show. As always, I appreciate that. And well, should I just close this?
 And time to run interviewing you today? Well, folks, that's all the time that we have for today.
 It's been absolutely a joy being on the show as always. And as always, take this information,
 change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]