 If you've ever been a leader or a parent, which would mean that you hopefully still are one,
 for any amount of time, no doubt you've had to deal with some kind of unsavory behavior from those
 you're trying to lead. But how you deal with those moments will likely determine whether that behavior
 gets repeated or avoided in the future, dealing with dishonesty and deceit that's coming up next.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are. Welcome with the show folks. I hope you're having a
 fabulous day wherever you are. Today we are talking about dealing with dishonesty
 and deceit in the workplace or in the home. Now, there are leaders in the office in
 no doubt parents at home who may feel that those they lead aren't always being completely honest,
 telling have truths or outright deceiving others. I can tell you that I have experienced that
 in my past. I am somebody who is a high altruist. I'm somebody who gives people the benefit of the
 doubt. So I struggle sometimes to understand who when that's actually happening. But here's the thing.
 When it is left unchecked, this kind of unsavory behavior can create discontent. It can
 break up the harmony in the home or office. It can impede work. It can begin to become an obstacle
 to goals and objectives. I mean think about it especially if team members are experiencing this or
 we're getting wrong information throughout the team or projects or to the leader or whatever it is.
 Obviously, that can impede work. Unfortunately, it can in fact others. So it can begin to spread
 negativity. It can begin to spread lines themselves. It can also begin to spread a lack of loyalty
 or respect for a leader who doesn't handle it. So, leader, parent, if you've got followers, then you've
 naturally got problems. Well, shepherds are no strangers to the fact that sheep are messy creatures.
 I can attest to that personally. But what happens if we ignore the mess? And what are some
 leaders shy away instead of engaging? Let's be honest, it's really hard work, cleaning up messes
 without doing harm or creating more mess. It's tough. And that tends to be the reason that holds
 people back. When we come back, why leaders tend to turn a blind eye and what's at stake?
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue
 when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having a lack
 of high quality communication. To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life,
 it all starts with having great communication. The best way to get that communication is to
 understand your personality style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're
 spending the most time with. Whether it be at work, whether it be at home. The best way to do that is
 to go to Chrissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your team
 two day. Get it for your family members. Two day. As you go through that profile, you will begin to see
 the greatest ways to communicate. Go to Chrissacrittle.com/store two day.
 Why do leaders tend to turn a blind eye and ignore the mess? Well, first thing, and this is probably
 by far the biggest piece, they don't want to deal with the conflict or even the consequences of
 holding others accountable. Think about it. Most people do not like conflict. There is a small group of
 people who don't have a problem with conflict and there's an even smaller group of people who enjoy conflict.
 Get your butt to next level life. If that's you, there is a lot of people who hate conflict.
 Who don't want to deal with the conflict. Every person who's focusing on their own worth in the situation
 is highly likely to avoid the conflict. Think about it. What if conflict arises? What if somebody
 challenges you? Calls you out. Turns it on you and says that you're the reason for all this
 stuff. Whatever it is, how are you going to receive that? How are you going to respond?
 Another reason is that generally just don't like uncovering and dealing with unsavory matters.
 Maybe it reminds the mother past, maybe it causes them to have to stop focusing on the thing they're
 focusing on. But I've seen so many leaders that choose to not look at something that's going on because
 they just don't want to deal with it. It might not even be because it's conflict. It could just be because
 it's distracting them from the thing that they're focused on. Another reason might be because
 the personality style of the leader, the parent, maybe more of a people pleaser,
 personality and they actually have a tendency to sweep things under the rug. No matter where you are,
 where you might land on that spectrum chances are that you've been there and you found out
 that there's a whole lot of things that are difficult to deal with when you're dealing with
 deceit, deception, dishonesty. I can tell you that is something that I have had times in my
 earlier years that I was really slow to respond to because of the fear. The fear that it was going to
 become a big dramatic conflict or that maybe I was approaching somebody who was going to be
 super controlling. But yeah, I've been there. I can think back to when I finally decided enough is
 enough. We got to change things and I started changing things how difficult it was. But over time
 with the practice it became something that man, I could jump on right away and actually get rid of
 a bunch of the bad after effects or the continued dishonesty and deceit. There's an old joke where
 I got walks into hardware store and he asked the guy who owns a hardware store. Hey, do you have
 any hammers and the guy says, "Yep, they're back on aisle five." He says, "What does that sound?"
 And the owner says, "That's my dog." He's back there laying out a nail. He's like, "Oh,
 okay. So the guy goes, looks at the hammers, picks a hammer, comes back to the front. He could still hear the
 dog wanting." He said, "Is he still laying on that nail?" And I says, "Yeah, he goes, "Why?"
 He goes, "Because it doesn't hurt enough yet." And folks, I can tell you, dealing with crap like deceit
 and dishonesty, whether it's in your workplace, whether it's in your home, is going to be messy.
 But if you do not handle it and you're waiting it for it to be painful enough for you to have to face it,
 then I can tell you it's going to be way messier than if you would have just jumped to it in the beginning.
 So, Keith thought, ignoring personal problems is like smelling smoke and seeing flames,
 but not raising an alarm and not responding to that threat that these things pose. So here's some
 warning signs that you might consider to be smoke, you might consider them to be flames, but they should
 put you on alert. The first thing is sustain negativity. Now, anyone can have a bad day. There's
 no doubt about that. If we have a heart for people, then we can understand that. We can even
 be very empathetic to help people as they're having a bad day and they're struggling through something.
 Something you should know, though, when somebody is having a consistently negative day, day after
 day after day after day, when it's sustained negativity, there's probably something going on that's
 much bigger. They're probably losing a ton of worth and it's very possible, I'm saying, I'm not
 saying that it is true, but it's very possible that there's some deceit going on. It's possible. This is a
 warning sign. This is something you should start paying attention to. Another sign, flame or smoke, smoke or
 flame, I actually kind of feel this is more flame, is rumors or gossip. Oh, yeah, cannot stand it,
 right? Now, these are viral infections and they spread. So don't think that just because one person
 is gossiping, it can stop there. Here's the deal. If a person is gossiping, another person is listening,
 right? Unless that person shuts it down and sends that person to their leader and make sure that it
 gets discussed and resolved and fixed and get the gossip out, then that person is listening to it.
 Well, I think we've all been in an environment where we see that that just carries from person to
 person to person. It is just disgusting. It is terrible. Another smoke or flame is the lies and dishonesty.
 You know, when you experience things, when you see things, when you know things and somebody is telling
 you that those things aren't true, this needs to be a warning sign to you. This needs to be something that,
 you know, the bells and you know, sirens are going off in your head. That is something that as
 a, in my earlier years as a high S, as somebody who is altruistic, as somebody who was decently submissive
 back in those days, that's something that I would allow people to tell me. Nope, those things aren't
 true. Nope, that's not actually happening. Nope, that's all in your head. And even though I knew the truth,
 when it, when the lie continued to happen, eventually it started to become somewhat of a truth
 in my mind ahead that praise God have, you know, stop and focus on what is actual truth. Get to true
 clear perspective for me to recognize it. If you're hearing it, if you're hearing lies, if you're
 seeing dishonesty and instead of tackling it instead of shutting it down instead of, you know,
 getting to the accurate perspective. If you're receiving it as it's not truth, then guess what?
 That the, the, the, the situation's not actually happening. Then guess what? It's going to happen
 a hundred more times without you doing anything about it. Think about it, parents. How many times have
 you been lied to by a child, but convincingly so were you struggled to recognize or that it was
 a lie or not, right? But deep down in the science, you knew I have watched many parents literally be
 lying to to their face. And I've watched the reactions knowing this parent knows that that's a lie,
 but not to anything about it. Why many times it's because they know that kids are going to go
 ballistic. Why is it getting go ballistic? Because the child has an experienced consequences for their
 choices. And to make the child stop and focus on the lie is just too much conflict. It's too much drama,
 it's too much arguing, it's too much whatever, right? Fill in the blank. The problem is, when you
 continue to allow that, what are you teaching the child? What are you teaching the team member
 that they can continue to get away with it? Let me say that again, you buy not stopping it, are teaching the
 other person that they can get away with it. Another warning sign, hafters. Things that aren't
 completely true, you can tell that it's not completely true, you can tell that there is truth to it,
 but you can also see the deceit in it. There's many times one of the things you will hear in this
 office building is that didn't answer the question. There are many times where we will ask a question in an
 event. What there's next level of lying, a strap plan, it doesn't matter what it is. If somebody is
 struggling in the moment with the question, a lot of times they'll deflect. A lot of times they'll
 say something that sounds like they're answering the question, but they're actually not answering the
 question. Well, that's still deception. I'm not talking about somebody who misunderstood the question.
 I'm talking about somebody who understands the question, but the side's not to truly answer the question.
 If you would like to see a fantastic example of this, find a really bad press secretary.
 Find somebody who can't answer the questions. Find somebody who constantly changes the answers.
 You'll see very quickly. It makes it really easy for you to recognize it when you can see blatantly
 somebody deflecting it. It makes a lot easier to find somebody who's really good at it or it's just a slight
 deflection. Also, another warning sign is isolation avoidance. When people pull back, when people
 avoid you, when people stay distant, it's a good possibility that there is a reason. For those of us that
 are believers, well, you don't even have to believe it. Understand this, shame can be a huge thing
 that causes somebody to pull back and stay distant. If somebody knows that they're being deceitful to you,
 if somebody knows that they're deceiving you, then it's a really good chance they don't want to get
 caught in the deception. So avoiding things becomes a natural response. As long as they can avoid
 something, they're convincing themselves that nobody's going to find out. Nobody's going to see
 that they're being deceitful. Nobody's going to see that they're being dishonest. So when there's evidence
 or indication of these things, something's most likely burning in the building. Where they're smoke,
 yes, most likely there's a fire. But what can you do to save the building and the people in it?
 So here's the preventative cure first. Create, curate and cement your corporate culture. See that,
 see the three seas, well actually there's five seas in there. So first thing you need to do,
 culture is key. Whether you're at home or in the office, it doesn't matter. You have a culture everywhere.
 Now for me, I define culture as actions and attitudes. What are the actions of the people,
 what are the attitudes of the people that creates culture, that becomes culture, right? So doesn't matter
 if you're at the home, if you're at the office, upholding the corporate culture or home culture is a
 standard that we can point to. This is our culture. What we teach on our lesson on culture is that
 is something that you must force. You must define the culture that you want. You need to teach it. You got
 a force that has to be forced in there. You need to recognize it. You need to call it out when it's bad,
 right? Recognize it when it's good. Call it out when it's bad. This is a process you got to do over and
 over and over and over again. Even at home, you should be creating the family culture. We do this.
 This is what we do. This is who we are. We do not do this. If you take a look, again, believers, go back
 to Mount Sinai. When you look at what God is doing with the mixed multitude, children of Israel and
 Gentiles, there's a mixed multitude. We are involved as well for those of us that are not one of the children of Israel.
 What is he doing? First thing he's doing is teaching them who he is, then he's teaching them who they are,
 and then he's teaching them how to be a child of God, how to be one of his. God is creating the culture.
 This is what you do. This is what you don't do. Here's the consequences. If you do the right things,
 the good consequences. Here's the consequences. If you do the wrong things. Those things need to be in place.
 Whether at home, or at the business, you have to have a defined culture that people can anticipate
 that they can understand. You also have to say we don't do this or that we do this instead.
 If you don't actually speak out the culture that you want, if you don't actually teach people
 the culture that you want, how are they going to know? There is a possibility they can see you living it out,
 but really, why do we wait until then? Go ahead and teach it. Help them to understand how do you
 treat both the external and internal clients? How do you teach the clients up, give us money and the
 team members that we work with? How do you take care of situations when things go wrong?
 When things go bad? How do you take care of mistakes? What are the things that you do? It is great
 when I look at a team member who's struggling with a mistake and I go, what are we going to do about this?
 Because sometimes people will be very fearful that they don't want to disappoint me.
 Then I'll say, what are we going to do? What are you afraid of?
 Well, I don't want to disappoint you. How am I going to respond to this mistake?
 First, you're going to say what happened? How do we fix it? How do we make sure it never happens again?
 Then I say, "Well, that's pretty much it. You're going to go back to work." "Yep. I'm not going to rip your head off."
 No. Okay. Well, then what are you afraid of? You're right. Okay. Let me go fix it.
 I love it when my team can anticipate me. Especially what it's good stuff. I'm sure they can
 anticipate what it's bad stuff. But I love it when they know this is how we do things here.
 Because I've taught it and my leadership team has taught it. And the team members themselves have
 self-policed by teaching it. So it exists. Another thing you need to do is teach by your own examples.
 You need to be teaching it. But if your examples don't actually bind it up, your actions don't actually
 back it up, then your words don't really mean a whole lot. Okay. So if you're not actually doing it,
 if you're not actually making it happen and actually teaching, then guess what?
 How are they going to ever believe you? Right? So you must lead by example. What else can you do when
 the building is on fire? We're going to talk about that when we come back right after this.
 Freedom. It's so powerful. I don't rejuvenate and almost renewed. I just felt so
 welcome and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment. So I was very comfortable
 there. So I had a really big impact on me. It's going to be worth it. It's going to be hard.
 But it's going to be even better on the other side. For me it was just a very refreshing.
 And I want to say life giving to me and really was. You know I would go to the next of the life
 again and probably again and probably again because it's so powerful. I want you to ask your
 self a question. Could you hear the sense of hope and freedom and their voices just then?
 I want you to know that could be you. Look, it's easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns
 and unhealthy relationships. It's going to take some work. But yes, there is hope for you.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of self-awareness and
 freedom that they have or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like for you.
 Then head on over to Chrissacordo.com/nextlevellife.
 [Music]
 Now that we have the standard of culture secure, I know that you've done it just now between the
 break and now. Now we can point our team and family to the exact culture. We can use the
 foundation of the culture as accountability. Folks, I know that many of you come from a bad background,
 or maybe a bad religious background or accountability is a dirty word because they're usually
 points to somebody beating you over the head with a Bible telling you all the things that are wrong with you,
 while they've got their leg holding back the closet behind them of all the things that they've screwed up.
 That's not what accountability is. Accountability isn't bullying. Accountability isn't pointing the finger.
 Accountability is helping people to stay true to the common expectations.
 Accountability is lifting up people's arms. Accountability is pushing people on the
 needed accountability. Accountability is caring for them when they need it. Accountability is getting in
 there and helping the person to become successful. A team member, whether it's a family member,
 it just doesn't matter. Get in and help somebody. What are some common expectations?
 Well, without an expectation of accountability, guess what? There's chaos. A common expectation
 should be accountability. So imagine a society that doesn't have any rules or consequences for breaking the rules.
 If it doesn't matter if you break a rule, nothing happens. People are going to break their rules.
 There's no consequence. Of course they're going to go and do stupid, right? Because nobody's
 going to hold them accountable. When it comes to accountability, there's a few things you need to understand.
 First off, it's not only okay to hold people accountable. It's a good thing to hold people accountable
 for what they're responsible for or what actions they're having or what they're doing to be destructive
 or to be deceitful or dishonest or just if they're not even trying to do anything bad, they just aren't
 getting the right things done. It's okay to hold people accountable. It's not only okay
 it's required if somebody who wants to be a great leader. You can't be a great leader and not hold people
 accountable. Show me one great leader in history that did not hold people accountable.
 It's impossible. You can't find that, right? Also, every member of the team is responsible for their own
 words and actions. Even though I want you to understand this, especially those folks that are more inclined
 to be controlled. Many times people make you think that their actions in their words are your fault.
 Been there done that. Had that a lot of my life where I was responsible for somebody else
 until you recognize that you need to put in healthy boundaries and I had to do that myself.
 Until you recognize the need for placing healthy boundaries in place, then what will happen is
 you will have a tendency not to hold those people accountable. If the conflict of somebody pushing on you
 is too much and you're receiving it as your self-worth and your issues and your problems,
 then guess what? There's no way you can possibly hold them accountable. So you've got to understand
 each person must be responsible for their own words. Also, accountability is another opportunity for you
 to reinforce the corporate culture and values. So think about it. When you're holding somebody
 accountable, whether it's at work or at home, it gives you the opportunity to point to the very culture.
 It gives you the opportunity to say, we don't do that here. We don't allow that here. We
 do things this way over here, right? It gives you that piece for them to go while that's truth.
 I've heard that 14,000 times. So guess what? This is my fault. Now, yeah, it'd be very cautious with
 this if you're not following the culture, then you're going to get it back in your face pretty don't
 fast. Well, you don't do that. Well, I saw you do this the other day. This is where the old
 terrible saying do as I say, not as I do, just doesn't fit. It doesn't work. You've got to make sure
 that people can anticipate that you do the right thing. And then when you call them out, they can't
 blame you for not doing the right thing. They can't throw it back on you. So hold them accountable by
 pointing them back to that culture. Now, a few things you have to think about when it comes to
 doing this. First thing is not everyone in the office comes from a place like yours. Maybe if you're
 coming from a stronger family background, if you're coming from a stronger work ethic background,
 whatever it is, do understand one of our core values here at the Poem and Group is that everybody has
 a root system. We must honor that. It doesn't mean that we have to agree with it. It doesn't mean that
 we have to allow them to live in victim mentality or whatever. It just means recognize that this person
 has a background that they're coming from. That's telling them that they should respond this way.
 So understand that. Also, understand that every single day they bring their own root system,
 their own culture, their own problems, their own brokenness, their own great things. So, you know,
 it doesn't have to be negative, right? But we're talking about this in the context of negativity.
 They bring all of that to work every single day. So parents, you know when your kids come home different.
 You know when your kids come home and something has influenced them in a negative way. You know when
 your kids come home and something's influenced them at a positive way, right? If we don't dig in and
 discover what it is, we have school systems. I don't know what it was, but I'm just so proud of John
 Rich who in the Nashville area. Again, I don't know exactly what it was, but something was in his
 kids book that he's going to public school and he blew these things up on posters. So I'm assuming
 these are images and he took him to a school board meeting and they would not allow him in
 with the posters because it was too terrible. Think about that and he's sitting there yelling at
 him going, "You are teaching my kid this," right? Then he got a meeting with Governor Lee I believe
 and said, "If I brought these into your home and showed them to your grandson, what would you do?"
 And I think Governor Lee's response is, "I have your rest, and he goes, "Well, guess what?
 This is what's in my kid's school book." Apparently he called a special meeting. I don't know what's
 happened since. Hopefully they fixed it, but I applaud the parent for standing up and going,
 you're not going to influence my child this way, right? I will be honest. I don't know how many,
 I'm other than the fact that it makes it incredibly difficult to have one parent at home. I don't know
 if I could have my kids at public school. What's going on today, right? I'm not saying all public
 school is bad. That is not what I'm saying. Don't say that that's what I'm saying. What I'm
 saying is is that there's so much going on out there where kids are being influenced in terrible ways,
 right? What is right by Daniel Lappin, call it? He calls it a gig. Government indoctrination camps.
 That's what he calls the public school system. Think about it, right? What's the influence your
 kids are receiving? What are the influence towards ideals? What if it's influenced towards other
 kids that are having worth issues or struggles? What if it's influenced towards bad decision making?
 Whatever it is, you have to understand that their friends, their teachers, the books that they're reading,
 the music that they're listening to, the TV shows they're watching, the old for the love,
 social media, which they should not. Just thinking beyond is having an influence. All of it is.
 All of it's having an effect. Same thing for your team members, leader. How they're living their lives.
 Now you don't really have a say there. But if they are experiencing other team members as negative,
 if they're experiencing other team members as gossipy, if they're experiencing other team members
 as being deceitful, that's having an influence on them. So this makes it even more important to make
 sure that you are teaching, that you're living out, you're rehearsing, you're reinforcing your culture
 and your values. When you do it, over and over again, good people will self-police.
 Let me say that again, when you do it, over and over again, good people will self-police.
 They'll call it out. They may not give consequences for it, which may not be the role anyways,
 but they'll call out the crap. And then I tell you what, there's nothing better than watching your team
 members, call out somebody who's being dishonest, deceitful, going against the company culture. It is powerful.
 So now that we have culture established and we're actively holding people accountable,
 we're ready to tactfully engage with questions and a heart to help others. Now, Dr. Stephen Arcavie
 says, if I were to summarize in one sentence, the single most important principle I've learned in the
 field of interpersonal relations, it would be this. Seek first understand, then to be understood.
 Folks, I, you hear us teach all the time that you need to gain perspective. Perspective means nothing
 more than point of view, however, when you only operate from your point of view, that's all you've got to go on.
 So you're always right. There's a little trick that I do where I have a black thermos that I do
 in events and I ask people, I said at the end of the table, and I say, hey, what colors this thermos,
 and people like, well, it's black. I say, well, what if I said it was blue? And they go,
 I'd say, you were stupid. I've literally had people say that. I say, what if I turned it around and my
 half was blue, then what would you think? Every time people are like, oh, well, I guess I didn't see it
 from your side. That's exactly it. You didn't see it from my perspective. So if you're going to help,
 and if you're going to have a heart to help, you have to engage through inquiry, ask questions to
 gain perspective, seek to help, seek to heal. So here's a fantastic question and a fantastic tool for you
 to use. Use the phrase, help me to understand the question, help me to understand. Instead of attacking,
 instead of telling somebody, instead of setting your reality, and telling them what they're thinking,
 doing whatever, ask a question, help me to understand what you meant when you said, whatever.
 Help me to understand why you've been doing this or that. Help me to see things from your point of view,
 how are you feeling? How did you receive this information? That, that has been an important thing for me as a
 teacher to ask people, say, how did you just receive that? To make sure that it's not been
 translated into somebody's mind differently than what I've said, that happens a lot.
 When people are struggling, when pride is evident, I have to be very cautious to watch responses and see,
 did somebody just take something, I just taught them and turn it into something else. That happens
 actually, unfortunately, often. I've had it happen with clients. I've had it happen with team members.
 I've had it happen with family members, where somebody is telling me that I'm saying something,
 and it's like that is absolutely not even what I'm saying. Why is that happening? Because the person inside
 is translating it in a way that helps them to deal with the thing that they're struggling with. Sometimes it
 helps them to fight from their perspective if they can change something that you've said. So, make sure that
 you're asking, help me to understand whatever it is. If you can start with that, and you're not doing it in a
 sarcastic or controlling way, then you can actually get responses. Now, I had a team in here of leaders
 who had a situation happen back at their office recently, and it was just so terrible that I'm like,
 "Hey, does that person back there have a job anymore?" And I stopped myself. I said, "Well,
 here, listen, we need to go ask them, help me to understand why you did this." Because
 what if we don't know, maybe somebody told them to do it that way. Maybe even as I'm walking this through
 with a team, they're like, "Nobody did it." I'm like, "Yes, but at least you could then say they didn't
 have a good answer." Because here's what's happened. We've all experienced the time that we know
 somebody did something for the reason we know in our head, and then we go and tell them that they did
 this thing only to find out that we were wrong. So, make sure that you're getting perspective.
 Ask things like, "How can I help you with that?" With what you're struggling with. What can I do?
 How can I show you? How can I answer questions? What can we do to ensure that this doesn't happen again?
 What tools do you need? Ask a bunch of perspective gaining questions to help the person to overcome
 the struggle that they're experiencing. If you have the heart to help, if you ask the right
 questions, if you use the right tools, if you seek first to understand before you seek to be understood,
 if you do these things, then you can help somebody overcome these issues at the end of the day.
 We're not going to be able to help everybody. It's not always going to happen easily. It's not always
 going to happen the way we want. Sometimes people are going to fight. We call it fighting in a wet paper bag.
 Some people don't understand what that comment means. The old paper bags were, if they got wet,
 you couldn't tear them. They held together. They were put together differently than the ones
 that are today for the most part. But we find that people will fight like crazy,
 fight, fight, fight, fight, fight. You do the things you know to do. You help hold them accountable.
 You help point them to what's right. You help point them to your culture, your values.
 You help them by trying to understand what they're experiencing. You do all these things so that you know
 that you've done the right things. At least the things that you have the tools you have in your arsenal.
 Now obviously here, this is what we do for a living. So we go even deeper than this, which I would not
 suggest you get heavily into people's personal lives and stuff. Unless they're giving you permission
 and even then, it would be very cautious. But you do have plenty of tools to try and help somebody.
 And if they don't want to help, then you have the tools to hold them accountable.
 So if they choose to continue to self-sabotage, they choose to continue to be
 to seek for dishonest, then you have consequences that you can point to. Because they're not following
 the culture, they're not following the values. You're not always going to have folks who want to
 conform to the culture who want to be held accountable for their actions or even
 divulge what's going on underneath the surface. But you can and you must protect the common good,
 the morale and the climate in either your workplace or in your home. Without this protection,
 without you stepping up as a leader, the tendency is towards toxicity. Let me say that again,
 yes, I'm putting a lot of responsibility on you. Well, shouldn't everybody be responsible for
 themselves? Yes, yes, yes, but you are leading this. If you do not do this, if you do not stand
 for what is right, if you do not hold protection of what is right or what you want in your culture
 and your values, then the tendency is for people to move in the direction of toxicity. So,
 please understand this work that you are doing to get rid of this to see this dishonesty is good work.
 This is integrity on your part of leadership as a leader's apparent. This is integrity. This is
 creating a hospitable while possibly hostile environment. It may be hostile, but we're trying to get
 it to hospitable. That's our focus. We want to get it out of hostile into a great environment.
 This is the hard work that is required to lead well and develop leadership in others.
 Do not expect it to be easy, expect it to be hard, but expect it to be really, really good. Even if
 it ends up badly. I have had folks that could see, I hate it, I hate it, but I've had team
 members that saw accountability coming and pieced out. I've had team members who assumed
 what they knew was coming, which was the ability to anticipate me as a leader,
 that this accountability was going to come knock them upside the head. What do I mean by that?
 That they were going to get warnings. They were going to get rid of it. They were going to eventually
 get fired if they continue to work their actions. Instead of choosing integrity instead of
 choosing work ethic instead of choosing to stop the deceit and the dishonesty, they chose to leave.
 Guess what? If you can't step up and be honest and have integrity, that's exactly what I want.
 I don't want you here, but I could always point back to myself and say, I did the right things by
 trying to help. I did the right things by holding them accountable. That's where you want to be.
 Now, obviously, you can't fire your kids. But you can at least help to give them the consequences
 to their choices, the consequences of their actions. There's a fantastic sign that my wife and I
 saw a long time ago that said, well, well, well, if it isn't the consequences of my actions and I'm
 telling you, we need to make a t-shirt or something like that because it's just such a great perspective
 of going, okay, this is my fault, help them to see its their responsibility. So let me ask you some questions
 as we wrap up today's show. Where are you shine away from the mess in the sheep end?
 Take an inventory of the areas that you're not stepping up as a leader as a parent.
 Where are you seeing signals of smoke or flames and are neglecting to engage?
 Where do you need to press in a little more and understand seeking to help and heal your team, your family,
 your spouse, whatever it is? And finally, where are you the one struggling to actually have accountability
 and step up into integrity? These are things that we need to know. We need to have this self-awareness.
 Right? And if you don't know, ask somebody who can honestly not deceitfully controllingly,
 manipulatingly, but somebody who can honestly give you some quality feedback. Folks, hopefully all of this
 has helped you today become a better leader, a better parent, a better person. As always,
 take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your family,
 change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]