 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardos Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do not who you are.
 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the show folks.
 Hope you're having a fabulous day.
 We are having another great day as I am joined by the two phenomenal people Brian Alex and
 Joe Porter.
 This is a series that we are doing that Brian has created this fantastic, hey, here's three rules.
 You guys agree with them, rip them apart, disagree with each other, whatever it is.
 And so today we are on another topic.
 So Brian, why don't you take it from here and explain what we're hitting the net?
 All right, so today three rules for leaving your past behind you.
 Here's kind of the rationale behind the topic.
 And just like we did last time, we're going to open up the topic a little bit.
 Set the context, dig a hole, and then set the ladder to hopefully help folks get out of this.
 But a lot of emotional trauma in our present is rooted in our past.
 We have a name for that around here.
 We call that the root system.
 It can be part of our root system where we have trauma experiences and all of that.
 But it's something changes in us when we choose to change how we think about those things in our past.
 And what I mean by that is this, our perspective can change the way we experience things in the present.
 You know, we've said it before from Senika, we suffer more in imagination, more often than in reality.
 It's our imagination.
 It's how we think about the trauma, we go into victim mentality, we have all these things.
 But what would we add to that?
 If we're setting up this about leaving our past and we're going to give some steps to that,
 where do people get stuck right here and how deep does this whole really go?
 Good stuff, good stuff.
 All right, we're going to hit that, we'll come back right after this.
 Freedom, it's so powerful.
 I don't rejuvenate and almost renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So I was very comfortable there.
 That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it.
 It's going to be hard, but it's going to be even better on the other side.
 For me, it was just a very refreshing and I want to say life to you for me and really was.
 You know, I would go to the next level of life again and probably again and probably again.
 Because it's so powerful.
 I want you to ask yourself a question, could you hear the sense of hope and freedom and their voices just then?
 I want you to know that could be you.
 Look, it's easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns and unhealthy relationships.
 It's going to take some work, but yes, there is hope for you.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of self-warnishing freedom that they have or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like for you, then head on over to
 cernode.com/nexlevellife.
 So we're talking about three rules for leaving your past behind you.
 Let's just set up the context a little bit.
 How we think about our past, it has an effect on us right now.
 We talk about this a lot in the next level of life.
 But for a lot of people that struggle, the struggle is here in their mind and how they think and process about the past.
 And so before we give some rules, guys just speak into the context a little bit.
 How deep does this whole really go?
 Not exactly knowing what that means about our Alice in Wonderland hole here.
 It's enormously deep, especially depending on if you're a person, especially who comes from a lot of difficulty, trauma, toxicity in your past, whether it's your parents or a parent or whether it's brokenness in your home or whether it's stuff that's happened to you.
 It's terrible and awful that this can run extremely deep in terms of especially being able to move forward.
 This whole concept, a quote unquote, like leaving your past behind, is there's a lot of that that really isn't necessarily possible at times.
 But it's how you manage yourself going forward.
 But man, if you're just to speak a little more into this, it's like if you come from a little bit of difficulty, difficult past, then it's going to be easier for you.
 I believe to learn and to lead yourself more effectively, self-manage, overcome struggles.
 When you've come from decades of it, you're talking about years and years and years of healing and restoration journey.
 Yeah, I look forward to the rules, the things that we're going to begin to.
 With what you've shared so far, the thing I would say is, it's probably the most important thing that we teach.
 Lots of what we talk about are the what's in the lives.
 Everybody can come to a place of understanding what the problems are, what the decisions they make, what are the things that they screw up,
 counseling focuses a heck of a lot on what we would call the surface level response and how to deal or cope with that surface level response.
 For us, we focus on something and everybody should have a great counselor to talk to.
 For us, we focus on something deeper. We want to get to why does it exist?
 And there's a super important reason for that. And we believe that this is something that God has guided us to, and that is to helping people to get to the what.
 Not the what people could see the what all the time.
 When you understand why the issue exists, the deposit and your root system exists, the training from a parent or grandparent or somebody in your life exists.
 When you understand the why and you couple that with the decisions you're making in life.
 Whether good on healthy, healthy, self destructive, self sabotaging, whatever it is, holding you back, propelling you forward.
 When you can couple that, then you can understand whether or not you want to make different decisions.
 Because now you understand where the decisions are coming from and why you make them.
 And then most people, if not all coming through next level life, we've done whatever 450 of those things now.
 Those things, those super intense two day events, you know those things.
 Those huge life changing events.
 What happens is when somebody comes through and sees those, they're like, oh my gosh, now I understand why I keep doing this or this or this and why keep telling myself this line or this line.
 And I'm done.
 I just need the tools. What do I do to fix this? So that's I think that's a very important piece of understanding when we look at this concept of looking back and leaving your past behind.
 Sometimes we're not leaving our past behind.
 Sometimes we're reordering in restructuring our concept of it to get to greater perspective so we can make better decisions.
 I hope that helps.
 Awesome.
 Here's how we play if you're new to this series.
 We've got three rules. I'm going to read the rule. It's associated rationale to help unpack that little bit and give some clarity.
 And then one of you will kick it off with an immediate reaction.
 Maybe you love it. Maybe you hate it. You'll want to modify it to fit your perspective and your experience.
 And the other person weighs in either green or disagreeing. Remember that the more disagreement the more entertaining and informative it will be.
 So the point is so much disagreements.
 Play to find something to push back on Chris.
 You're the master at saying do you have any push back? Is there any push back?
 Push back?
 This is your chance. This is the chance you've been waiting for to push back.
 So push back.
 Gently it's Joel. But the point is the thumb listener takes away some of the ideation and the deliberation that goes into it.
 So we're not just straight teaching a point. They're getting some perspective around it.
 So are we ready? Let's get cracking.
 Rule number one for leaving your past behind you is to determine if it's true or false.
 Whatever whatever it is that's been haunting you the tapes that are playing over and over in your head.
 Is it objectively true or not? Here's the rationale.
 You can battle resist and defend yourself against negative thoughts with the truth.
 So rule number one.
 True or false.
 True.
 It is true.
 Chris.
 What's that you?
 False.
 I just said it.
 Just to say it. Moving on.
 Rule number two.
 Yeah.
 It's true.
 It's true because you're speaking about a person's belief system.
 Our belief system is highly trained as people from what we from parents beliefs and teachings and behaviors to lies that we have been told that we learned the till our self lies that we pick up and we teach to tell ourselves how much guilt we struggle with.
 We struggle with blaming our self we struggle with self criticism and so much of that is lie driven or it's been taught by toxic voices of your past that you've picked up and now you guilt and shame and beat yourself up and become your biggest critic.
 Probably nine out of every ten next of a life.
 If not ten out of ten.
 Self criticism is a huge deal.
 Well listen to that.
 Self criticism is take it to being a physical criticism.
 Let's say I just punch myself in the head all the time.
 That's what we're doing verbally.
 I've never ever met someone that just naturally arrived there that doesn't come from a lot of difficulty and toxicity in their past.
 And what's interesting is that when we come from a difficult past with toxic voices and opinions and behavior toward us is that we grow up.
 And it's as if they've successfully delegated this toxic belief system into you and now you just run on it yourself.
 I've never not seen someone.
 I say that never not you can disagree with that Chris.
 But it's picked that part right there.
 Do that.
 This is a real thing.
 So every single time you will see that person have very difficult surface of responses think very poorly of themselves and when you dig into their past you will hear and find exactly where that comes from in their root system.
 Because in you look at contrast that with healthy people.
 You look in their past you don't see that.
 You don't see people that just are obliterating them and filling their head with what with toxic thought and lies and guilt and shame and feeling like you're just a big failure.
 You're you're trained to believe that stuff.
 Yeah.
 I do love how you tied in the other three rules of delegation into this one.
 Well, not even knowing the choice.
 Always.
 Always looking for synergy.
 There you go.
 Oh, there is no doubt that we lie to ourselves.
 We lie to ourselves about all kinds of things.
 We every single person and the funny thing is 99% of people get that when we talk about that in like next level of life or something and then every now and then somebody will go,
 "What do you mean I lied to myself?
 We do it all the time, right?
 I'm not good enough. I'm not attractive enough. I'm not funny enough. I'm not smart enough.
 I'll never have a good enough spouse.
 These people hate me.
 Whatever it is, there is an insane number of lies that we tell ourselves and it's just different according to the person, right?
 That's, you know, I tell myself different lies than you tell yourself, Brian, or you tell yourself, "Joke, even though we may have some matter very somewhat."
 The key is what we call gaining quality perspective.
 Now, perspective means nothing more than point of view, right? However, my point of view is what I lived by, right?
 And if I have unhealthy people around me, then it's probably a smart thing that I only live by my point of view.
 However, if I'm the most toxic of all the people around me, then it's probably not.
 One of the things we'll do in like strat plan is I always have like a copycanister.
 I'm holding this up as if people could see it on our podcast.
 But I've got a crystal-curdled water bottle. I actually use it as a copycanister.
 I've always filled this up with copy for me during strat plans.
 And I'll always on the table with all these leaders around the table and say, "Hey, question for you. What color does this canister?"
 And they'll all say, "It's black."
 And I say, "Well, what if I sit at the blue and every now and then somebody will say, "I'd say you're stupid."
 So I say, "And then I pick up the canister and I turn it half turn now."
 Again, it's still black. I canister. I say, "What if my side was blue?"
 And then they go, "Oh, well then I'd say I didn't see it from your side exactly. That's correct."
 Quality perspective is looking at your situation from every possible angle to gain information, so you can make the best decision about your situation.
 Right? When we look at self-sabotage, when we look at lying to ourselves, as Joel pointed out, I may be trained by toxic parents that I am a terrible, horrible, son, piece of crap,
 whatever. Right? That everybody's happiness is my responsibility that I should be blamed for when things aren't going well and they're lies,
 even though I have absolutely nothing to do with it. Whatever their thing is, they're struggle for them being out of control.
 They try to take control by controlling me, suggesting that I feel horrible about myself, and then what happens?
 The moment I receive that toxicity, it becomes my reality. It becomes my perspective, right?
 If I have quality, healthy perspective, and I'm able to do something like a next level of life, sit down with somebody who actually can see things from different perspectives or healthy perspectives and find out that there's pieces that aren't accurate about that are not true,
 then I can get to better perspective. I can get to better truths about my life.
 Most people, so for so many women, you know, work three guys that can't really get this, but I don't know a woman who doesn't understand this.
 There's a cartoon strip that I saw, "Gee's decades ago of a skinny woman looking at a mirror and seeing it very overweight woman."
 And that was something that for me, on the type of person who, I noticed things I want to understand why they exist, why it happens, what that thought process is.
 And every woman that you talk to and you say, "Do you agree with that cartoon strip?" Oh yeah, absolutely, that's what I see. When I look at the mirror, I see all of my flaws.
 You know, when as I die, we can look at that person and go, "You're dropped at gorgeous, look at how beautiful you are." They're so pretty, whatever, the person goes, "Yeah, but look at my hair today."
 And look, I've got these blemishes on my face and look at, and what they are constantly telling themselves, and thank you to us and media, and you know, all kinds of people over the centuries,
 basing women's worth on their outside, instead of, you know, on what gods, as about them, it makes it very easy for them to believe those lines, right, that they aren't beautiful enough,
 that nobody's going to appreciate them for who they are. And so funny thing is, for years and years and years, as I've been helping women to take a better look at themselves in a better perspective,
 whenever you push on the, "Hey, why do you tell yourself those things?" Oh, it's just for me. Now it's because you're comparing yourself in the eyes of other people, other women, the funny thing is more about other women judging them, it's not even more about other men judging them,
 but like, "No, no, no, no, no, it's just me judging myself." Every woman will do that. No, no, no, it's just me. Well if it's just you, then what is a matter?
 And when you dig in, dig in, dig in, what happens is three layers down, what you discover is, "I am worried about what other women think about me." And the funny thing is, is they will readily admit that when they look at another woman, they're judging.
 And so when they judge, according to what the world has said, then they expect that every woman is judging them in the same process, right?
 All of that is a bunch of bunk, right? A bunch of who we, the, the, the we used to we before, there we go, there's who we, because it's based on what?
 The world's way of saying this is your worth or this is a large portion of your worth. So gaining quality perspective, if I was to go and look at what God says about me as a woman, if I were a woman,
 then I would see how in love with me he is and how I'm made, fearfully and wonderfully in his image, and that he is pursuing me and he has such a greater destiny than, then, put my outside holds, right?
 If I could see those truths and God, then I could gain greater perspective and understand what my struggles are. So I don't know if that was rapid fire, but there you go.
 The delegate from Idaho yields the mic.
 All right. If there's no retort, let's move on to rule number two. Remember, we're talking, because you probably forgot what we were even talking about.
 Three rules for leaving your past behind you and someone just fell under the bus. Okay.
 Rule number two, determine if you could have done something better or different based on the information you had at the time.
 Here's the rationale.
 Many times it's been comforting to me to think about where I was at the time, what info I had, my maturity level, everything else and self-assess.
 If I didn't know any better at the time, then I can stop beating myself up. If I knew better, well, that's on me and I've got a change. So the rule number two is, determine if you could have done something better or different, is that helpful or no?
 Yes.
 As we're going through this, what I want to point out is we do not get to be victims. As adults, we don't get to be victims. As kids technically, we are victims.
 We are under our parents' guidance and direction, we're supposed to honor them and follow them at least publicly.
 As adults, we make our own decisions. The key is, I must take responsibility for my decisions. So we always talk about if somebody's been controlling unminibulated,
 and they're setting your reality and telling you you're such a horrible person. If there's no truth to that, you don't receive it, you push it back, you give it back to them.
 That's them struggling with what they're struggling with, pray for them, hope for them, but don't receive it. But if somebody tells me that I'm being a jerk and I truly am, I stop, I take a look at myself, but I'm being a jerk.
 Guess what? I need to take responsibility for that. I need to accept that and do something about it. So first part of this is no victim mentality. We don't get to be victims.
 So to answer the question, yes, that is a correct statement. My fears, I don't want to give a pass, right? I don't want to make it where somebody looks back if their pass and goes, "Oh, well, I don't have to take responsibility because I didn't know better back then."
 No, no, no. If you screwed up, take responsibility. We have a thing where we talk about this with parents that when they come through next to a life and they see how much they perpetuated some of the crap from their past onto their kids, and they see it, and I'm like, "Oh, my gosh, I screwed up my kids."
 And it's like, "Yep, but you can do something about it. I can never go and apologize and tell me, "No, no, you can. What's the fear?" I will look like a terrible parent.
 And I'm putting control in their hands and authority, no, you don't understand.
 When you look, if your parent came to you and apologized for everything that they screwed up and said that they were trying to work on it, fix it, even if it was something that was 30, 40 years ago, how would you respond in every single time people go, "Oh, I'd forgive them."
 Why? Because God created that relationship, that parent child relationship. So what we teach people is, "Yes, you didn't know better back then. Should you have, sure, could you have done a better job learning how to be a better parent, learning how to be a better team member, learning how to be a better leader, learning how to be whatever you know, fill in the blank.
 Absolutely. But now that you see it, is there need for taking responsibility? Is there need for restitution? Is there need for just helping somebody who has experienced what you've done?
 If I'm saying a parent, as a child who's experienced a bad parenting, is there a need for them to be released from what they are struggling with, which is most likely blaming themselves?
 It must be my fault that my parents did this. So if you're able to sweep in and take some responsibility, they can actually not only change your life, but change theirs.
 So that's a great way to be a good learner.
 I know. There's so much there to describe it, Joel. So just pick some.
 It's hard when Chris has been my main teacher and leader for years. We tend to think very similarly.
 And then the ways that we actually help people. Price God actually do help people.
 So I think the thing I would add to this to what Chris is saying is that there is freedom found in personal responsibility.
 When you can get past fear, guilt, shame, and you can get to, you know what? I did that. I don't need to guilt and shame myself, or I don't need to hide from that.
 Those are surface level responses right there that we need to understand. Why are you even responding like that to these things?
 And if you'll dig in, you'll find probably where you're even taught to hide from your failures rather than see, shoot. That's me. I need to now own that.
 So it's a, there is such power and freedom and recognizing bad decisions any time in life and wrong responses to people.
 Oftentimes we have to be taught at times, well, what is a wrong response? Was that a bad decision? Because sometimes people we just don't know because that's not where we come from.
 But when we can get definition and we can get our logical brain around, yep, that was a bad choice. I need to now own that. Now, what are my options going forward?
 Because it isn't just a, oh, yep, I did that. Now let's say, okay, now what do you need to do? That may be, I'm going to work on that. I'm going to practice healthy responses.
 I'm going to actually battle lies with truths. I'm going to actually focus on these self management steps. I'm going to focus on realizing, oh, this is my training here.
 And it came from imperfect people or it came from really difficult experiences I've had. And you start to get to the whole why behind the what it provides freedom to then just see, you know what?
 I did that or I'm doing that today or when I respond to my child or my spouse or my brother in these ways.
 Man, that's actually not right of me to do that, but it doesn't make me just a, just a bad person. Because that's the fear. It's the, oh my gosh, I'm going to be I'm so terrible. I'm now here comes the shame. Here comes the guilt. Here comes the beating yourself up.
 No, no, no, no, those are also trained taught responses. It's all just let me hide from it. But we learn to see the stuff very objectively. It's like, well, I think we're going to do an episode some time.
 Maybe, maybe, maybe, edit this out. I don't know. You tell me, but on the whole rational versus irrational thinking of like, what are we doing? And it's a matter of getting to, okay, this is my rational brain thinking or this is my negative emotion that I struggle with.
 I'm just powering my thinking as opposed to logical rational thinking of seeing what am I doing now or then why was I doing it? What were my goals? And part of my testimony in story is looking back in in my, especially my 20s.
 I don't know how many bad decisions, very much living for Joel, but I don't look back with any shame and guilt. And I can look back at all kinds of junk and stupid decisions that I made. How I hurt people. How I took advantage of people, all kinds of things.
 I don't know what people don't know me to be that way today, but I know me to be that person in my past, but I don't look back with shame and guilt. I look back and see, see your brokenness, see where you were nowhere with God, see how you're living for you, see how you're living for man's approval, look how you're living for self gratification, on and on and on.
 Joel, how did you get to be that person? Look at your past, look at your root system, look at all those pieces, man, that makes a whole lot of sense. That makes a whole lot of sense. Now that's me. If you're hearing that saying, yeah, but Joel, you don't know, I did this, this and this.
 You still, there is a way out of living in fear, guilt, and shame if you have made really bad decisions, they're absolutely as a way out of that.
 Absolutely. I'll take my 30 second rub on. Just a point out.
 I do think it's important for people to understand there is a growing number of supposed thought leaders that are teaching this in a victim mentality way.
 And people are aligning with it like crazy. And you see people just destroying relationships and all kinds of things because they're hearing these victim mentality messages and going that's right.
 I am a co-op, so victim, I'm going to do things my way for now on. That is not, and we would never can build that and that is not what we're saying. We're saying take the responsibility and Joel said there's so much freedom.
 Yeah, excellent. All right. Well, coming up next the third rule you need to follow in order to leave your past behind you.
 So if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having a lack of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life, it all starts with having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with, whether it be at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to crissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your team to day get it for your family members to day.
 As you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate go to crissacrittle.com/store 2 day.
 And we're back. Rule number three is determine how this experience in your past has made you better. Here's the rationale. You can't change the past, but you can change the future by changing your decisions.
 Now, time is progressive, it keeps moving forward and we have to keep up by moving to. So is it true or not?
 Rule number three determine how this experience has made you better.
 Yeah, I would say it's all about your mindset, it's all about how you look at the thing. It's also there are some things that the sovereignty of God is fully at play.
 When we look back and see, even things that we have done decisions we've made, things that have happened to us and we see it in isolation.
 We see it at that moment in time that we're experiencing something when we get hindsight and we can look back just like you can look in your Bible and look back and see some of the the greats if you will better like me.
 Look at that person. What a terrible decision that person made back there that was a that actually was a super righteous and amazing person, but you can look and see and look at some of the decisions and look at what played out as a result of that decision.
 Because God is sovereign. He is leveraging and in working out a redemptive plan. He is a restore and he's doing it because it's what he chooses to do because it's who he is.
 So we can never discount that when we're going, so where does the what does it teach me today? It teaches me that now any point in time.
 I may be going through something or someone may be going through something difficult and it teaches me look for God.
 Look for what's happening here. Look for where this is going. Don't look at it in a vacuum.
 Don't look at it in isolation because you don't know how God may be doing something right now.
 And then it's like, yeah, but Joel, but it's super difficult and it's hard and it's a struggle. Well, if you're a believer, where do we not see that in the Bible? Where do we not see that? Where do we not see God sparing?
 The quote unquote, good people from really difficult things because it's a part of what he's going to he's orchestrating. It's a part of his plan. But this comes back to faith. It comes back to do we trust God in the difficult moments in our life.
 We trust that man, he may be using this or he's going to teach me something or he may bless somebody else and we use this as we're walking through things like struggles.
 That it may be hard. I mean, I've got hard struggle stressful things going on in my personal life right now.
 I have been taught, look and see where is God, where is he, what is he doing? Joel, what is he showing you about yourself? What is he drawing, applying or allowing you to go through pressure or stress?
 Because it's drawing stuff out to the surface that you need to work through that you need to process through that you need prayer on that you need to focus on your own self management because I'm allowing you to go through something that's even more difficult.
 Or a new difficulty and I'm trying to train you up and where I'm trying to take you in your life.
 And then we see those experiences and then we may open up our Bible and see how difficult things create character, how difficult things create perseverance.
 For in that I go now to well for what? And to me it's now not a, oh my gosh, what's going to happen? I go to what God is preparing me for things that are probably going to be even more challenging in the future and that really provides me hope and comfort.
 Joel, I disagree with you on none of that. That was a great.
 I've been waiting for that. And nothing.
 Oh, I'm satisfying.
 I think something that we don't spend enough time thinking through as Christians, for those of those that are believers, is that God is in a continuous process of sanctifying us.
 In other words, he is perfecting us. We aren't going to be perfect today. It's a process that he's working on to live.
 So what we would say here is that Satan is your greatest cheerleader until you do the thing he's cheering you on to do and then he becomes your greatest condemnmer, right?
 He would love for us to live in that shame of the past.
 And again, this is not saying we don't take responsibility. It's not saying that at all. It's just saying we understand that the world we live in and the sin that's in it and that God's perfecting us to be obedient to him and live a more righteous life through, through Jesus.
 My former Pat, when I was in traditional ministry back in the 90s, the pastor that I was under, he just passed away.
 Amazing, amazing man. And I'll never forget his son, Mike, once talked about how he would always look at situations with his boys.
 That's a really hard way to work with his son, Mike and Steve. He would always look at a situation that happened to somebody.
 And he would turn to the boys and say, "Boi, did that situation make that person better or did it make them better?"
 And that is something that they held onto and continue on positive till this day to still look at situations and go, "Is that making a person better or is it making it better?"
 Also looking at themselves and asking themselves that same question, "Did this situation make me better to make me better?"
 With the understanding that we must take responsibility, even if we discover something 20 years later, and we can take that responsibility to it.
 Try and do it, it's the spirit of it, right? How can I set things right? How can I set things straight?
 The question we need to ask ourselves is, "Did I become better because of that situation, that decision, that event?"
 Or did I become a worse version of myself?
 Which would, if we do a really good introspective job and a lot of people don't like to be introspective, it's something I happen to. I've spent my life doing trying to figure things out and understand me, people got all that kind of on stuff.
 If we spend a little bit of time introspectively looking at the situations that make us better and really looking at the situations and decisions that make us worse version of ourselves, what would we do about both?
 If we could see what's made us better, would we try to press the gas pedal on those types of decisions and really hone in, create a perspective and learn how to make more of those quality decisions.
 If I understand why I'm making the decisions I'm making that I can change the battle ones and really kick in the good ones, but if I can see the decisions, I'm not afraid to look at them.
 But what are the things that we walk through, what some folks walk through some bad decisions about experiences, like, "Oh, I want to look at it tomorrow, no, no, no, no."
 It's not a matter of living in it, it's a matter of the perspective about it. How did I do? How did this impact my life? How did it impact me? How did it impact my family, my friends? How did it impact my finances, my physical being, my social life, my relationship with God?
 If I can look at that and go, "Okay, here's what I see the impact was now I can make different decisions going forward." That was bad. That was my choice, that wasn't my choice.
 I did that. It was something that happened and unfortunately, it affected me whatever and again, trying to remove the mentality as much as possible. Then by having that perspective, I can choose a different path, a different decision, a way to bring in health decisions into the process.
 All right. Any rebuttal, final comments from the peanut gallery? That was all junk.
 Let's spend the next 45 minutes dissecting. No, I think we've helped some people learn how to leave their past behind Chris.
 I'll get you to wrap this up. Well, don't leave us behind. We want you to take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 (dramatic music)