 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show, folks. I hope you're having a fabulous day, wherever you are.
 Today joining me again for the fabulous deconstruction, no, maybe that's not it.
 What we say is it's this.
 I don't know, I haven't they got enough of us yet.
 I mean, I don't think once again once again.
 Let me speak for yourself.
 [Laughs]
 They can't get enough of Joel Siff, that's for sure.
 That's for sure.
 I think these have been great.
 I'm hoping that everybody thinks these episodes are fun and fantastic.
 And I think it's a great opportunity for us to take a look at rules and see if we agree with them and see if we
 believe that they fit.
 And today we're talking about distraction.
 And if I can just let me check, do you?
 I need to check any mail before we get on with the show here.
 What do you look at?
 Is that your past?
 Yeah, hold on a second.
 I just got an notification.
 Yeah, my mom's calling.
 Hold on a second.
 [Laughs]
 Okay.
 So folks, the jokes don't get any better than this.
 This is the best that we've got right here.
 So today we're talking about distraction and brine.
 You're going to take over the show.
 But before we get to that, we got this fun announcement right here.
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here.
 I'm the Vice President of Leadership Development on Chris's team.
 And I oversee our next level of Mastermind Business Coaching Program.
 Most business owners and leaders lack a clear path to succeed in business.
 They question whether they're making the right decisions.
 If they're focusing on the right things to really grow their business.
 If this is you, you need a coach in your life.
 Coaches help you make better decisions, navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively,
 and grow your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue
 and an average of 138% increase in net profit and regained hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3.5 years simply because of the results they get.
 So if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting,
 then visit ChrisSacordo.com/mastermind.
 Again, ChrisSacordo.com/mastermind today.
 Alright, we're back and Brian, you're taking over. Take over brother.
 Hey, well, we're back for another round of 3 rules 4.
 So the way that we play is I'm going to introduce 3 rules for a subject that Chris mentioned.
 A minute ago, and then our contestants Chris and Joel are going to battle to see in wet paper bags to see which one can emerge first.
 And so let's see how this goes. No, we're talking about eliminating distraction or at least trying to reduce it.
 I mean, we've got productivity at stake, but we've got our sanity at stake.
 Much of what we suffer from in our modern culture stems from being overstimulated.
 No jokes, please. Too many sources of information.
 Our streams of interruption.
 And so that's why it's an important topic.
 I'd love to get some, I don't know, some perspective around this. I mean, we live in a hyper stimulated culture.
 Just think about it recently in the last couple of years, words like trigger overstimulated hypertension.
 These are now common in our vernacular. So here's the deal.
 Distraction is the enemy of gaining traction.
 So actually getting somewhere in life and business, et cetera.
 And this lack of focus is killing our productivity.
 So this isn't one of the rules. This is just the context here.
 Distraction is the enemy of gaining traction.
 Guys, anything to add to the context and the perspective before we get into the rules.
 I'm intrigued. So far, I'm a great local.
 A lot of that. I do believe that we are, you know, as you pointed out, it is amazing to me.
 As we lead people, even in events or calls or something like that, how many times you can see distraction playing a part of, you know,
 even leaving somebody to a great perspective on something, there's a lot of distraction out there.
 And it's even become tough to get people to disengage.
 And again, we have a lot of business on earth and leaders.
 And so, you know, a lot of stuff is going on back at the business.
 But our goal is if you follow the things we teach, you can step away.
 You know, you can step away from the business.
 But it's interesting that in the process, how many times somebody could be incredibly,
 incredibly distracted was something that's going on and they're not able to step away.
 That for me is sad, and it makes it where I really want them to get to that place of feeling comfortable.
 Joseph.
 I think I would speak to that.
 I would speak to that from the personal side, as you were kind of hitting it, even from a leadership or a business perspective.
 But on the personal side, people want to gain traction as well.
 And a lot of people have goals and they want to be a certain way.
 It's cheap, certain goals.
 Be a certain way in their marriage or be a certain way with their kids or whatever it may be.
 And the same stuff applies there that we have these enemies of traction and enemies of momentum and enemies that we have to really be intentional about.
 Which means you have to have a really great clarity on where are you going and what does that look like and how do I get there to be where I want to be in my life and my marriage to maybe things that God has called you to do.
 And there's always going to be tension.
 There's always going to be things that are going to put that at jeopardy that are all part of that management process.
 Cash. So, you know, we came into this from the business side and Joel, that's so fantastic for you to bring that in because this could we could talk about this for hours like as you're talking, the things that are hitting me.
 How many times are we distracted from the time we're supposed to be with our family?
 How many times are we distracted by parents, especially young parents listening to this world that their kids must be in 17 different functions.
 During the week otherwise they're not going to grow up well and yet what do we see when people are in 17 different functions during the week? They don't grow up well.
 They don't have family time. They don't have good quality time with parents and siblings and things like that instead they run run run run run and think that's whether life is supposed to be.
 So, yeah, I mean it's interesting.
 As you say that, I mean I feel like that's even more powerful and more, more, you know, weightier than even the business side.
 So don't know where you're going Brian, but have at it.
 I don't either and that's what makes this fun.
 No, I think it's important to highlight a lot of some of the most.
 I'm writing them as I'm talking. I'm so distracted.
 No, as you guys are talking, I'm thinking about some of the most popular business and sometimes for life books are along the lines of getting things done essentialism, the war of art, just to name a few.
 I mean we've all read books like this because we're in a culture that values productivity.
 And so that's at that's at jeopardy, that's in jeopardy obviously, but I think the underlying thing or the more to the baseline problem is our own sanity is at risk because we're so distracted and pulled and we allow that.
 And so our awareness goes out the window, our attention, our focus and we've actually spoke on that here recently a couple of the the most recent podcasts have dealt with things that we've been doing.
 I mean even in what we teach on the life side for next level of life, we talk about self awareness.
 Well that ability, I mean that's a that's a practiced skill that's not something that you know, at least for me.
 I didn't naturally and I still don't naturally it's it is very much swimming up river upstream to to find that that awareness, the tension and the focus that I'm doing.
 I'm doing this that I need to to be able to look at myself and change the things that I want to change.
 So all that to say yes it's productivity.
 It's also on the life side like Joel was hitting and so I'm excited to see where we can get into these three rules and maybe hit on both sides of that same coin.
 Without further ado, if we can set up the game here here's how we play. I read rule and it's associated rationale and then one of you will kick it off within immediate reaction.
 Maybe you love it, maybe you hate it. You'll need to modify it to fit your perspective and experience in the other person will weigh in by either agreeing or disagreeing once again the more disagreement the more entertaining.
 And in form and if only you want that we know you are that that's why I'm here that's the only reason I'm doing this now the point is that the listener hopefully takes away from all of the ideation and deliberation that goes into each point of rule a greater perspective and that's what we do here at the crystal card of show.
 So here we go rule number one. Rule number one is create boundaries. Here's the rationale. If you're allowing notice the word play here. If you you are allowing too many influences in your life too much clutter then you're creating distraction not eliminating it do the hard work of making boundaries agreed disagree. Let's go 100% agree.
 And I like even I feel like the word boundaries is even overkill right I think the important thing that you know I don't know who originally came up with this but we all teach it.
 If you're saying yes to something you're saying notice something else right.
 The key is is that we feel like we live in the society that says you got a hustle you got to go you got to run you got to make things happen you know even in the concept or context of productivity.
 It is always you've got to go above and beyond to make things happen I'm one of and I don't know if there's anybody else out there teaching this but I want to the folks who goes against this concept of hustle.
 That you've got to go and spend 18 hours a day you know trying to create something while your family suffers now some people would say oh it's only for short period of time no I completely disagree.
 There is a time to get things done and you need to house you need to make it happen we would call it you know the oxes and the ditch get the ox out of the ditch right.
 And you don't see your family and I'm going to always push back on that and say well as a believer that's just anti god that's not what God wants right that's priority is not building an empire.
 Priority is relationship with God relationship for the if you look through Ephesians 4 5 and 6 relationship with God relationship with your spouse relationship with your kids.
 Then the work side of things come in right so for me I'm all about I own four businesses I'm all about busted it you know we were doing everything in the office we're trying to make the rich happen we got so much stuff going on.
 But there's no doubt we start when we can go and we run and run but when it's time to stop and spend family time together or you know for us we honor the Sabbath so we have that time of rest in God.
 We do these things because we're prioritizing them but when we can't do the productivity side we don't we choose not to and the reason why is is I love my wife.
 I love the time we have together I love my team I love you guys I love being able to continue this stuff and it not ruin my life right.
 So I think you know definitely boundaries as an important thing I would just say like for me boundaries is putting a boundary against something you know something doesn't come at you but I think you're the one who has to make the decisions of.
 What do I choose and not choose in life what's important to me what do I go after and then what do I say no to now here's where boundaries definitely would come in.
 If you have controlling our men appeal people in your life and you're choosing to spend time with let's say family or spend time with God and they feel slighted well then that's where healthy boundaries may have to come into play.
 But also keep in mind God wants us to be in community right there's times to be in community there's times to work.
 So I think that's where I would see the boundaries part really play out is you know there I can't get to everything I can't get to everybody.
 We have lots of clients we have lots of stuff going on we have lots of events happening I can't get to everybody but I tried to do the best that I possibly can.
 Let people know hey text me on this you know so people don't want to bother me they like well I know you're busy I don't bother you know bother me just understand I might be in a four day straight event which means I mean I get to for a week right but get you know send me a question.
 We'll find a time to talk just understand that the priority at the moment may override me getting to you know if you become the priority in the moment then I will jump in and take care of you but I even let people know.
 If you don't hear from me it's probably because I'm in a strap plan I'm in an x level life I'm doing in events I'm where I will get to you just hold on to it so those are my thoughts don't.
 Yeah as much as you want like it Brian I do completely agree with you.
 You know and I think you know and I agree with everything you just said Chris and you know when I look at the importance of this it's has.
 Yes Brian shakes his head and just turned off all the whole podcast.
 I think that's so important is how we make decisions and what can pull us away from having boundaries because again I mean I'm going to I'm going to stay to get I agree with it and then share some thoughts on it.
 Is that depending on how we make decisions and depending on where our worth is coming from or depending on what we feel like we may have to control in our lives those things can pull us away from having boundaries.
 But when you've so I'll then you all this is a thought that's on my mind here is is when it comes to making decisions is especially Chris is you were speaking about empire building and you know all these things that can give us a sense of worth or give us a sense of significance.
 And if we are chasing significance and I will say in the wrong places we will it will be really difficult for us to have boundaries or our boundaries will be let's say that our significance is coming from you know our careers.
 And man very much so generally speaking men can be very guilty of this where women can really struggle with finding a lot of significance and being a mother.
 There's a lot of worth that can come from that a significant that can come from that well if that's left unchecked and we're not doing well making making decisions there because we're chasing worth those boundaries become.
 Hey, I'm sorry I'll have to see you later I'll be home at nine or that boundary becomes hey I'm sorry.
 You know husband I've got to take care of my kids and that's where I've got to focus all the time and I've got to put you in in second place behind the kids.
 It's about how we're making decisions it's about what is feeding us this sense of value and makes this feel important there makes this feel prominent or again give us it gives us this sense of worth or a steam or confidence.
 And it's really tricky in hand seeing what we teach in next of a life is helping gain a lot of clarity on how you're making decisions or that boundary may become hey God I don't have time for you or you only get this little tiny portion of 10 minutes in the morning.
 And I'm not doing what I really need to be doing in my relationship with God or leading my family in that way and we end up setting the boundaries with the wrong people or we set the boundaries around the wrong things because again because we're seeking significance.
 Rather than living in a constant state of knowing your significant already of knowing you are worthy already and I'm hitting a massively complicated and complex topic and issue here that we dive deep into and next of a life or on a gazillion other podcast episodes but it's a huge deal.
 Yeah that's so powerful good stuff.
 All right well we've tackled one and I will admit that was a softball spike.
 For our contestants today.
 But as we get into the next two hopefully we'll be a little bit more controversial.
 All right guys rule number two so remember these are rules for eliminating distraction rule number two is stop scrutinizing stop scrutinizing so here's the rationale.
 Over analyzing your options or situation is a detriment to execution because it creates unnecessary detours from the plain path of executing the plan ahead of you so rule number two stop scrutinizing what do we think.
 I would say there is a time for scrutinizing and there's a time when it's time to move on.
 So I agree with the rule in part with just operating off of those two words of stop scrutinizing because you could even you could do nothing but scrutinize.
 If we're all you know it's like Brian let me take a step back here do you have a definition of scrutinize for us or shall we just leave this kind of open.
 Oh I I'd love to have you guys just speculate.
 Sure. Okay. I mean and pull in pull in some yeah mean I'm my mind goes to us high seas and so I and there's some yeah there's obvious rabbit trails to take down there.
 So then all of this continue on then yeah there's a time to scrutinize and there's a time of I mean we teach gain perspective.
 I mean we teach get point of view get information look at stuff take stuff apart but then you reach a point where you have enough perspective.
 And we you learn what that is over time how much do again that magic question will draw how much is part of the perfect line of perspective and there's not necessarily such a thing.
 But we have to balance this stuff out of knowing okay I have I've scrutinized it enough I've analyzed it enough I've drilled in it enough okay now we need to move forward.
 If we've made some if we've got some bad perspective or we make a bad decision okay let's fix let's fix that let's learn from that but let's continue on I think the you know a bigger problem.
 Often that I see in our personal lives or in our careers as leaders and as business owners is that people don't scrutinize enough.
 At times you know the D and I personality styles can be too quick to be like well we talked about it for three minutes let's go.
 Haven't we talked about it enough haven't we researched it enough and the the season S is are going after information they're going after whole slow down.
 Let's look at that let's get more information we don't know exactly what we're doing yet and this when I will come back to personality styles and decision making.
 That this is kind of a know that I self where a C to your point Brian a C may get to a point of being of scrutinizing forever.
 Where a C needs to get to a place of realizing okay my tendency is to analyze forever okay I really do need to move forward here I need to learn what is the right amount of scrutiny analysis to same thing with like I'm the high I.
 I can go from my C go to my I and my I can be like let's just move okay that's let's go let's go make decisions go fast let's go let's move forward and if I'm living there.
 In if I'm immature there in my personality style I may not scrutinize enough where the C's like see told you.
 Joey needed more information on that so there's a lot of know that I self here in terms of your personality style and knowing again that balance of how long to scrutinize versus when to move on.
 I think I think the high D's it's so funny because Brian your D and see.
 And so the very same rule you celebrate right the there's a part of you that says yes stop scrutinizing right and there's a part of you that says no we have to look at it three more times.
 I think the key is the old adage paralysis of analysis when scrutinizing becomes paralyzing.
 There we go when scrutinizing becomes paralyzing then we're failing at accomplishing what we're trying to accomplish right because we're now not being productive now.
 With that said again I'll go back to you know speak on what Joel said there you have to be at a point so let's take the high sea and because really who's going to do the greatest amount of scrutinizing getting to that process of analysis it's going to be the higher sea personality style I the high detail person.
 Another under pressure what they can experience is the fear that they are going to fail.
 So an interesting thing happens most high seas double check everything.
 When the high seas under that pressure they bypass triple check and go to quadruple check I mean it becomes the and here's the reason why it's not because they're checking and checking and checking in my right and my right it is check they move on to something else crap.
 I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I think I
 It's a waste of productivity because you're pulling your focus away from whatever it is that you should be on now you should have moved on to the next thing you're pulling your focus away your momentum your mojo.
 And going back to something that's already been scrutinized something that's already been double checked right so if for some reason you have to go back then I would start questioning the process do I have the right process in place do I have the right.
 Measurable and pro and place to make sure that the thing that I'm doing is getting quality attention and it's actually done correctly right so I think the part of stop scrutinizing.
 Is again after you know what you've done is right stop move on however if you have to keep coming back to it that I'm going to question whether you have a good process in place.
 If you don't then that's probably where we need to go to next is solving the lack of processes.
 That makes sense coming up next the third rule you need to follow in order to eliminate distractions in your life.
 Folks if you've been listening to me for any length of time then you know the number one issue when it comes to business when it comes to family when it comes to friendships is having a lack of high quality communication.
 If you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to know that you have a lot of time you need to
 To see the greatest ways to communicate go to Chrissacrita.com/store2day.
 All right welcome back and we're at rule number three remember we're talking about eliminating distraction from your life we talked about the first two rules create boundaries and stop scrutinizing now we're going to hit number three rule number three is this except.
 If you're avoiding the painful reality around you and so you go looking for distractions stop determine to accept what really is and what you have to do next.
 So rule number three except reality like it lump it pass it to the next person.
 Brian could you explain that again.
 All right so the rationale here is that sometimes we can avoid doing the things that we need to do maybe it's a difficult task something on savory but it's part of our work it's part of our life.
 To accept the reality that we're in and make progress move forward and we purposefully distract ourselves with pleasure with you know things that don't matter things that are easier instead of doing the hard work of what we need to do.
 To be healthy to move forward to get things done and so the idea here is accepting the reality that we're in this is where I am for now and so I need to embrace the reality instead of going to look for distractions and creating some kind of a false narrative or fictional life and I immerse myself in entertainment and so forth.
 So I think I'm following all of that I feel like we just packed in about eight to ten topics into one that we could wrap on and talk about but think if I'm following the rule and the rationale correctly.
 There I think there are times when we do need to accept and see hey what's going on this is what I'm facing and so rather than be a victim to it or rather than go to let me ignore it or be distracted by pleasure be distracted by easier things.
 I think there is a lot of health in terms of acknowledging circumstances so that you can say you can settle in you have an expectation of okay this is where I'm at let's move forward.
 The key is as long as you're moving forward and you're moving forward in a good direction as opposed to this is just too hard this is too difficult.
 Let me now not deal with what I need to my responsibilities or my priorities.
 And I think that this character comes back to having a discipline in you to be able to see okay this is what's going on.
 I don't like all of it or I don't like all of the the amount that's on my plate or the struggle set are in my life but it's what's happening right now it's what I'm facing it's what I'm dealing with.
 I and then say I won't be a victim to it it's where's your mindset on it is that are you moving through it.
 Are you even from a believer standpoint looking at maybe God has you in this place.
 I'm going to be a really extreme things maybe you're in a place because he wants you to be going through it or trusting that he is in it when you're going through things in your life that are challenging.
 So initially when you when you killed this up.
 I was hearing and maybe there's something to this or maybe not but I was hearing just here's your reality you just got to accept it you got to deal with it almost like in a victim sense and that's where I was going to be like if I'm hearing that.
 If I can add an extra rule can I add a rule I would say absolutely not let's not do that but let's go the the other path that I was I was speaking to.
 Yeah I think I mean obviously I wish I could give you a disagreement.
 Friends I think I'm I do see a lot of people you know we see what leaders all the time where they don't want to face that confrontation.
 They don't want to face you know we see we talk about a lot with high S's and I see that don't like conflict.
 Where you have a tough conversation that you have to have with somebody.
 And you're avoiding it and you're avoiding it we have you know a.
 I don't know a heavy report that we've got to put out our spend time on our project that we've got to spend time on and instead of doing that we're going through the emails and.
 And I'm laughing at the YouTube videos of cats and stuff that are coming through it's not difficult when we want to avoid something that we know is either going to be painful.
 Difficult as you said unsavory it's not difficult for us to find other things to focus on.
 And I think that's what we're talking about is once again it goes back to that every time you say yes to something you say another something else.
 For the highest especially we talk about this all the time every time you procrastinate the tougher thing because you think it's going to get.
 You know if you just give it time it's going to go away or if you just give it time you know it'll work itself out.
 Sometimes you know you sweep it under the carpet and it becomes this pile of things that eventually crashes down and now you got to handle multiple difficult situations because you didn't just jump in and handle it now.
 I'm coming from a high S I'm a very high S personality style.
 I just do the things that we teach right so the the my ability to solve things and get over things is because it's got frustrating with it in my younger years of just going.
 This is stupid every time I don't face this thing or if I don't handle this thing.
 Somehow comes back and bites me in the butt and sometimes it's even bigger because it's along with three other things that I didn't tackle.
 I think the thing that we have to do is if we can get in the practice and again we use the word practice a lot around our place because it is a practice you don't become this overnight you're not an expert overnight.
 If I will practice when something pops up that immediately inside I've got the red flags right my heart rate kicks up the adrenaline starts pumping it's the thing I don't want to face.
 If I will just tackle that one thing right then just get on it just handle it just do whatever is necessary and see what happens.
 Yes it may be painful yes it may be difficult but if I do that then what I discover is I actually solve the thing and I'm done with it.
 And I am so much happier five minutes later what everything is said and done that I'm like oh I did it I dealt with it I don't have to deal with that anymore it's taking care of right.
 So if I understand what you're asking Brian then yeah the issue that whenever we start putting in you know marketing emails from whoever some I don't know.
 I don't even know whatever company you know food company clothing company whatever that's coming into our email inbox because we'd rather deal with that than deal with the tough thing that we've got to do.
 Then not only are we not handling that situation and convincing ourselves that it's going to work itself out it's just going to go away.
 But we're creating an issue that's going to you know compound for us on top of that.
 Here's one thing that we rarely think about.
 If I'm let's say I'm supposed to have a tough conversation with you.
 Let's say you've done something and you know I've got to jump in there and fix it or guide or direct or you know I've got to train a team member because they're doing something that wrong way and I know it's going to be painful for that team member whatever the thing is.
 When I delay it doesn't mean that I've got to hit it exactly what it happens right it could be very reeling for the other person.
 Yeah if I just jump in and go hey that was stupid don't do it that way which I probably shouldn't be jumping in saying hello stupid.
 If I don't jump in and say hey let's talk about this situation let's let's let me teach you how to do this thing.
 It could be difficult for that person in a moment so maybe I give him a little bit of time but it's a little bit of time right.
 It's the amount of time to let them process through yaddi out of it then I've got to jump in what tends to happen for so many people and so many leaders and even so many business owners is that they are like I'll handle that there that person's busy right now I'll handle that you know later on and then later on becomes a week and they've completely forgotten about it and they never got it the person.
 Now here's what happens the person who doesn't jump in and guide and direct and help that person grow tends to become really upset when that person keeps doing the same thing over and over again.
 They respond in ways I've seen this so many times they respond and why can't that person just do the right thing.
 And yet when I go have you had the conversation with them no they should just know this how should they know it have you had the conversation with them no but seriously it's not that difficult.
 Have you had the conversation with the person and what you find out is is that leader that owner that spouse that you know parent.
 Is show. Fearing the confrontation and wanting to avoid that confrontation that they just expect that the person do things correctly don't have the conversation with them and then they just continue to get upset.
 Then ultimately what happens after so many times they're really upset with the person who still doesn't know exactly how that leader owner parent spouse feels.
 And so then one there's so upset that they you know slam their first down on the table.
 Dang it why don't you do in a straight way well now we're you know we're so far into it that you're immediately putting somebody on the defensive you're immediately on the offensive and frustrated.
 Now it's not a hey let me teach you how to do this right now it's a battle between two people who's right who's wrong.
 You know why are you handling it this way all that kind of stuff so I make firm believer.
 Again if I've got the role correctly yeah you got to handle you got to tackle things.
 But if the reality is if your reality is you have a problem that needs to be handled handle the problem if you've got a situation that needs to be handled handle the situation.
 If you start distracting yourself with other things that are easier less painful.
 The more you're going to find out is you will stack up the conflict and confrontation for another day and then it's all going to pile up and crash them on top of you and then you got to handle everything so that is my question.
 All right well I think this information has been helpful if it's not please let us know drop us a line tell us where we could disagree more.
 Or in a more entertaining way but here's here's how we've set this up for eliminating distraction we want to create some boundaries stop scrutinizing and accept the painful truth of where we're at and what we have in front of us.
 If that's been helpful drop us a line as well we'd love to hear from you and so this has been a fun little series of three different episodes three rules for something or rather.
 Go back and listen to the other two if this is the first one that you're hearing and if you've got an idea for what you'd like to hear three rules for send us that as well drop us a comment send us an email let us know smoke signals flare anything to get our attention.
 I think we are easily distracted by such things.
 All right folks well I hope this has helped you.
 It certainly has put a smile on all of our faces and as always take this information change your leadership change your business and change your life we will see you on the next episode.
 [Music]
 [Music]
 [Music]
 [Music]