 Alright, what is it about what other people think that ties us up and not that's on today's show?
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are. I could tell you I am having a fabulous day in Tennessee
 and joining me from Sicily again on the show is Brian Alex. Why does that sound so bad?
 That's not the end. Really the focus. What I meant was again from Sicily because obviously you live in Sicily and I don't think we share that enough.
 I don't think people know that you're when we do these you're actually in Sicily. So
 excited again on the show. How do you know that? Is that better? It's again.
 I feel it. I feel it. I'm feeling it over here. Your high high is coming all the way through.
 Nourishing my sea.
 So Brian why in the world are you joining me again?
 You know how I receive that Chris. You know absolutely. We'll make that the subject of a different show though.
 There you go. How to receive questions like this.
 No you know we have a lot of fun here about personality stuff. But no what we're doing today. Okay so
 we let me back up as Chris would say. As you know we've been experimenting a little bit doing some fun things.
 We've been doing a new little series called three rules for dot dot dot and you can go back and you can see those here.
 Recently over the last month we've got some new rules. This kind of thing. But before we get into days
 format it's a little bit different. This is a how to format and you know Chris I know that once upon a time
 and you're going to have to kind of roll back here to 20 what 13 14 you did quite a little stint of coffee with Chris.
 Yes. Remind remind us what was that like what was the format because this is nothing like that.
 But I want to I want to anchor in that for a second. What was that? Well we did a bunch of great like five to 10 minutes
 episodes and they all had on the front side. Brand spanking new Delano's coffees or different versions. I shouldn't say brand spanking.
 No bunch of you know the different flavors because Delano's puts out. These are David morse is a friend of mine out in in Washington who has this very large
 company that roast coffee sends all over white list stuff all that and they're great. We've I've loved them.
 And so we actually would go through each you know they sent us a bunch of different bags of coffee and man I was wired for sound because I'm always tasting these coffees
 given some input and then talking through switching over and talking through like a five minute piece on
 you know a leadership piece or a life piece or you know personality something like that. It's just a quick teaching
 on that subject and running on from there. We call it coffee with Chris. Yeah bite size episodes and this is
 nothing like that except that bite size. It's bite size. It's bite size. And I knew the one I was not
 supposed to have already had our coffee. We're kind of already the metaphors already breaking down because
 we're talking about bite size and coffee but the the point is yeah we're going to do a little bit of a
 series here on some how to. And so where is this coming from? So we've got questions that come in
 we've got of course a slew of clients that ask things from time to time. We've got our own comments and things that are generated online through social media
 and all of that is kind of converging here to give us a little bit of a series of how to's. And so
 today what we're talking about is how to care less about what other people think. I mean and so there's a little
 tongue in cheeky. I love the pause in there after less. How to care less. That's it. That's what that's
 episode right there. You're for an episode. Maybe about what other people think is the second episode.
 But you know our culture both values and shame for appreciating what other people think about it.
 You know if think about it. It's really extreme social media drives us to seek approval and yet on
 these people approval platforms people talk about how they could care less about what other people think. And so
 you know we want to find some balance or the fact that you're on the people approving platform
 and saying that you can care less what people think. Exactly. It's just yeah well we won't get into the
 how much of a soap box that is for nonsense. But we need to have people around us. We need to have people
 speaking into our lives who can give us feedback perspective, sound advice, good counsel, etc etc.
 However we can't be swayed by every careless opinion that comes out of someone's mouth. And we have to
 shield against that negativity and abuse. So we're going to cut to a quick break up next. What does it look
 like to get free from the chains of other people's opinions right after this?
 [Music]
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue when it
 comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having a lack of high
 quality communication. To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life,
 it all starts with having great communication. The best way to get that communication is to
 understand your personality style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're
 spending the most time with. Whether it be at work, whether it be at home. The best way to do that
 is to go to Chrissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your
 team two day. Get it for your family members. Today, as you go through that profile, you will begin to see
 the greatest ways to communicate. Go to Chrissacrittle.com/store2day.
 Alright, welcome back. So, Chris, we've set up the context and so now let's get right to the
 question. How can people truly care less than they do or that is right or balanced about what
 other people think? You want to do this bite size. You can just condense this to less than 10 minutes
 that would be awesome because you just have to. You just have to. You just have to. You just have to.
 You just choose. That's it. We're done. We out. This is one of the most difficult things for people
 to understand and get to, especially based on personality style. Now, all of the high-dees listening out
 there, right now just said, "Oh, that's not true, Chris. I don't care about what anybody thinks."
 Wing, I'm sure you don't. Yes, you do. Of course you do. Right, every person does.
 And sometimes depending upon our personality style, if you are that high-dee, you convince yourself
 that you no longer care. It's like the same thing if not dealing with something that's happened
 in your past. Oh, I've completely dealt with that. No, you literally just tried to block it out of your mind.
 But it still exists and it's something that still affects you from time to time. So it doesn't matter
 what personality style you are. You have to understand that it's not something so simple as making a decision
 to stop caring less. Now, that is a major part of it. But here's the problem.
 The people pleasing side of us, the approval side, the need for significance side of us,
 is an addiction. It is something that lives, it's breathing, it is something that is,
 there when we wake up, but it's something that is there when we go to bed. Because we live in a world
 that says your worth is based in what people think of you even. There we go. Even Christian.
 Christians who say, oh, I know my worth comes from God, when we dig down inside, if we go through
 next level of life, we dig down inside what we discover is they're not even aware that they don't
 really understand that. They believe they have it. They believe they know it. But then all of a
 sudden, they see a whole bunch of stuff and they're like, oh my gosh, I'm so dependent on what people think.
 I'm so dependent on people's opinions. So as we broach this subject, I mean, we literally could be doing
 a three part series of our long episodes talking about this. So we do. We go deeply, we literally do.
 Next level, next level of life is a lot about this and the approval and the worth that people get.
 Absolutely. So to try and not make this a weekend long episode, you have to first understand,
 no ifs and or buts about it, you gain a ton of worth from what man thinks of you, you gain in by
 man, I mean, people, you gain a ton of, I think about it this way. If it wasn't true,
 all of the cancel culture would not exist. All of the backing for the, you know, there is no
 genders. There is no, all of that stuff wouldn't exist, right? Because as these people started screaming
 and shouting, their opinions, their views, and you could say it on the opposite side too, right?
 As people started shouting their opinions and their views, if nobody really cared what they thought
 or said or didn't receive, and this is the big piece, if they didn't receive the judgment,
 the accusation, then those things would fizzle out very quickly, right? The concept of coming along
 and highly suggesting that somebody is a bigot or somebody is racist or somebody is because you're
 basing it on something that has absolutely no perspective of the person is ridiculous. If you
 can see the things in the person, then you have a foundation to have some sort of accusation,
 which you shouldn't be running along accusing people anyways, right? You should actually get a life.
 But if the point that I'm making is, is that by doing so, the problem is, people plezers receive it.
 People plezers, I cannot tell you how many people that have responded to some of the ridiculous
 accusations from people screaming from the, you know, at the top of their lungs of all these things
 about them and they're like, I didn't even know I was this. I didn't know I had this problem. I didn't know
 this existed. I mean, it's like, does it? Well, I didn't think so, but so, and so it tells me that
 it does. So it must. What are you doing? You're worth your value is based in what humans think of you.
 Where is it not based? In something that is eternal, something that is concrete, something that is
 perfect. God, right? So even if you're listening to this and you're not a believer,
 you still need to understand what I'm saying is accurate. What I'm saying is truth. There is a whole
 world of people who keep looking at other people to set their reality, to set their value, to set their
 worth. And the problem with that is, is the moment we receive, so I give this away and so people
 figure this stuff out when they come in the next level of life. Brian, why are you wearing that that
 black V-neck shirt? Man, that's just ugly. That's just stupid. Why don't you even know why you
 wear something like that? Well, I thought you were talking about my hoodie, which is-
 I was going to say the hoodie because that's the crystal credit hoodie, so I had to go past that.
 It's like a group swag. Yeah, so you happen to really par the different
 artists. Oh, I can see as a V-neck. I like black V-neck. This is not please you.
 But it's stupid, man. It's ugly. I don't know why you would wear that. Dude. So here's the funny thing.
 I will do that in next level of life for certain situations and certain conversations. And you
 kind of watch the person immediately. And I don't do it like they don't see it coming. I just hit it.
 And then you can see, "Oh my gosh, what's wrong with my shirt?" And instead of going, "Hey,
 I totally didn't come to you for your fashion advice." Their first response as well. But I mean,
 I just, it's the shirt I chose this morning. It's just, and they all of a sudden start justifying
 their shirt. You're on the defensive. Yeah. They go on the defensive. And the truth is,
 I can't even see your shirt. I just see that it's a V-neck, right? And so the key is,
 they immediately receive that this thing that I highly suggested that they are a bad person
 because of a shirt that they chose. So now let's just take that to a day-to-day situation.
 If I can get somebody within five seconds to question their worth about a shirt they chose,
 then take a look at how inundated people are by living in social media, by living on the news,
 by living in crappy media like music and movies and things that are just guiding and directing
 them in the wrong ways, right? So all of that is pointing them to their worth is based in man's opinion.
 What do we see? Scripture telling us, do not seek your worth, your value, in man's opinion.
 Seek your worth and God. He's the one who holds your eternal life. The decision of what's going
 to happen to you next is in his hands, it doesn't matter what man thinks. Interestingly,
 every almost every single profit was killed for the message that they brought.
 Every profit did not want to be a profit. We could see how difficult it was and the reason is simple.
 And this is a big slap in the face to all the Facebook profits out there, the self-proclaiming
 profits that say that God's speaking to them to tell everybody on Facebook that Trump's going to be
 back in office again. All of these people who are self-proclaimed profits, the profits of Scripture,
 the profits of God did not deliver a message of, oh, I know who's going to be the next precedent.
 They delivered a message of you're going the wrong direction and people hated them for it.
 You're not living the way that God wants you to and people hated them for it.
 Our own Lord and Savior was hated for his message of follow my ways. Do what I'm telling you to do.
 That is where our faith, our concerns should be in that not in what man thinks.
 I point that out to say, if even the profits called by God were concerned about man's opinions,
 it shouldn't be very difficult for us to understand that we are as well. Does all that make sense?
 Yeah, yeah. Just to sum up and kind of close this out. If people really want to be free,
 if people really want to free themselves from caring too much about what other people think,
 then they've got to deal with the fear of man and they've got to resolve that threat to their self-worth.
 So now they've got to resolve that and move past it.
 Well folks, I hope this is helped you today. As always, take this information, change your leadership,
 change your business and change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]