 You're familiar with the concept of living your best life, right?
 Well, what does that even mean? And what does that look like for you?
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life,
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks. I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 On today's show, we're talking about your best life. The life you are meant to live,
 that life that's waiting for you to uncover and discover, that life that you haven't had time for yet.
 Now, caveat as we go into this whole episode. Please understand that this is not
 some crazy, hope, message that's meant to get you super excited, and everything is just going to
 fall in place for you, right? That's pretty much how we see a lot of messages out there.
 Like, think about this. Have you ever had that thought, oh gosh, this thing I'm about to do,
 this is going to make all the difference. You know, whether it's going to transform my life,
 it's going to make me a better person, it's going to help me to overcome obstacles, addictions,
 that's how marketing works, right? That our product or service is going to improve your life. It's
 going to improve you, et cetera. And when we hear stuff like that, if the marketing works really well,
 then it kicks something inside of us that causes us to think, I probably am not living my best life.
 So maybe it's the new book that I've picked out. That's going to help out or the seminar
 conference that I want to do. That's going to change my life and make it my best life or the relationship
 that I feel really lucky to have. That's definitely going to now I'm going to be worthy and everything's
 going to be great. Or, man, if I just have the right surgery that's going to make me look and feel
 better, that's going to change my life. Or if I get the right car that helps me feel like I'm in control,
 and everybody is just admiring me at the stoplight, here's the problem.
 At its core, what we want is a real authentic unstuck life that's lived to its fullest potential.
 Let me say that again. At its core, what we really, really want is a real authentic unstuck life
 that we live to the fullest. Think about it. Now, what you may be experiencing right now may not
 be exactly that. Maybe right now what you're experiencing is that you are trying to gain worth in one of
 those areas of your life convincing yourself if you just get worthy from this relationship, if you just
 get worthy, if you feel worth from a new car, a surgery, whatever it is, that's going to finally make you
 worthy. The problem is it's not the thing that makes your life live to the fullest, is it? So as we go through
 this episode, my caveat is this, it is my belief that seeking man and seeking worth and man is never,
 ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever going to cause you to live this real authentic
 unstuck life to the fullest. What will do it? Well, I'm going to tell you on the front side,
 and so if you're a believer, this is going to be great for you, if you're not a believer, then believe it or not,
 the stuff I teach you is still going to help you out very much so. It is my belief that it is your job to
 seek God's will for your life. What is the purpose that he has for you and we'll get into some pieces
 as we go along, but what is the purpose that he has for you? If you are fulfilling that and you
 were doing it in the right ways, with the right tools, with the right mindset, now you're living a real
 authentic and unstuck life. Up next, what does your best life look like and how to start actualizing
 right up to this? Freedom, it's so powerful. I don't rejuvenate and I'm all renewed. I just felt so
 welcome and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment, so I was very comfortable there.
 That had a really big impact on me. It's going to be worth it. It's going to be hard,
 but it's going to be even better on the other side. For me, it was just a very refreshing and
 I want to say life giving to me and really was. You know, I would go to the next level of life again
 and probably again and probably again because it's so powerful. I want you to ask yourself a question,
 could you hear the sense of hope and freedom and their voices just then? I want you to know that
 could be you. Look, it's easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns and unhealthy
 relationships. It's going to take some work, but yes, there is hope for you. If you want to experience
 the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of self-awareness and freedom that they have or maybe
 you're just curious what the process would look like for you, then head on over to Chrissacordo.com/nextlevellife.
 In the War of Art, the Book War of Art Stephen Pressfield writes, "Most of us have two lives,
 the life we live, and the unlived life within us, that unlived life is your best life that's waiting for you."
 So, what if you could paint a picture of what that unlived life looks like? What would it look like?
 What are those things that you would want to see? What if you could see the you that you were meant to be?
 What if you had a picture or a mirror that reflected a detailed image of that better
 person? What would that person look like? Would they have fewer defects? Would they have
 fewer distractions? Would they have fewer deficits? If you were hangups, fewer obstacles that they
 have to overcome, would they have fewer anchors to the past? Things that are holding them back.
 So, here's what I want you to do. I want you to visualize for a moment. What you would look like
 if you were that better version of you because the truth is it's absolutely possible.
 Again, please, please hear me. If you followed me for any decent amount of time, you know that the
 stuff we teach is not about hype. It's not about hyping people up. It's not about a magic pill.
 The stuff we teach is tough. That stuff we teach is difficult. So, if you want a better version of
 you, guess what? It's going to take some, it's going to take some work. What's the first thing you have to do?
 You have to take a look at what needs to change in your life. So, use your God given imagination.
 Every one of us has this imagination to inform your present actions. The present actions
 of your future reality. Let me say that another way. Use your imagination of what it's going to take
 to discover. What's currently holding you back from being the person that you want to be. Imagine that
 you without the things that keep tripping you up, the things that keep causing problems, the things that
 keep creating issues that you have to overcome. Imagine you without those things. Take account,
 make a plan. What does it look like? Begin plotting a course to your future you by using the
 things that you see in yourself that need to change today. Folks, nobody listening to this show is going,
 "Hey, there's nothing holding me back in life." In fact, most people right now, if I assume
 correctly are saying, "Yeah, it's all me that's holding me back." Great. What specific things?
 What do you need to do to stop putting off the changes that overcome those things? What do you need to
 do to get the help that you need so that you get the right tools? What do you need to do to gain
 great perspective? Not just have your own perspective, just your perspective. Let me say it that way.
 Or the perspective of people who probably aren't healthy. What would it take to get healthy perspective
 of things that you need to change? This is a great start. This is where you want to begin.
 But living a great life is more than just overcoming faults and flaws. There's so much more to it, right?
 But let's start by saying, "If this is a better version of me,
 and here's where I am right now, what are the things in my life right now that are holding you back?
 Is it bad relationships? Is it fear of adjusting things that I need to adjust? Is it fear of
 leaving an unhealthy environment? Is it fear of leaving unhealthy relationships? Is it whatever it is?
 Is it my decision to continuously self sabotage myself? Whatever those things are,
 take a look at where you currently are and ask yourself, what needs to change to become that vision
 that I see of me that's a better version of me. Number two, you have to ask yourself the question
 how has God made you? Use your specific wiring to unravel what God intended when he created you.
 So once we start uncovering the things that are keeping us stuck in life, we've got to examine our
 uniqueness. So here's the key thought here. The more you uncover and understand you, and I'm talking
 about really digging in, really diving in. Really taking a hard look inside of yourself and saying,
 "Who am I? The more you'll be able to actualize your purpose?" If you are a believer and you're
 looking inside and you're seeing the God that is in you, then the more you'll be able to identify
 your true identity, which is not in you. It's not in the self. It's not in the ego. It's in him.
 The more that the unlived life inside of you will start to be revealed, who can you be?
 If you can see who God created you to be, then you can start actualizing those very things.
 So here's a deal every single one of us as unique. God made us all different.
 So I may not know your unique story, but here's what I do know. I do know that you have a God who
 has a plan and a purpose for you. I do know that inside of you with the very authentic real
 unstuck version of you is somebody who has purpose. I know that if we clear away the things
 holding you back and discover the truth and take you, not these magic pills that are out there, not these,
 you just gotta believe and you just gotta hope messages. I'm saying digging in and seeing how God
 wired you, then we find a reason for your life, our reason for living. When we can get to those authentic
 pieces, when we can discover how God has created us. Again, there's a lot of tools to this,
 but I want you to work on it. I want you to try to get to that place. Who am I? Who am I authentically
 if I was unstuck? What would I look like? If we can do those things, then we can start walking in
 those ways. What's the biggest fear? What do we discover next-level life? All the time as we begin the
 process. Most people are not walking out the true life that God called for them, the true way that
 God made them because of their fear of. You probably just said it, "Man, they're fear of man's opinion,
 they're fear of people, they're fear of how people are going to respond, the fear of people
 if they're going to put in healthy boundaries, make decisions that are not, please do not hear me say this.
 I'm in no way saying you should operate in victim mentality. That's just going to self-sapotage
 to the daylights out of you. I am in no way saying you should go be selfish. That is not what this message is
 because if you discover how God made you and how God wired you, believe it or not, not a single
 person has been made by God, wired by God to be selfish and self-centered. We are not to focus on us,
 right? What we find is our purpose of fulfilling the purpose that he's created. He's already put
 a whole bunch of stuff in us that wire us in specific ways for us to go execute the very purpose he put in us.
 There is no doubt. I'm a teacher. There is no doubt as I teach everything that we do here as I teach.
 The Bible as I teach just in helping people in marriage counseling and whatever else,
 there's no doubt that God wired me up to teach. Well, the question is, in praise God, he showed me this
 in my mid 20s, am I going to make my teaching about me? Or am I going to make my teaching about him?
 If it's about me, it will always be to draw people to me. If it's about him, it's always going to be a
 tough message that points people right past me straight on to him. So up next, the highest
 achievement in this process won't be living your best life, but something very different. We'll do
 you into that when we come back right after this. Folks, if you've been listening to me for any
 length of time, then you know the number one issue when it comes to business, when it comes to
 family, when it comes to friendships, is having a lack of high quality communication to make sure
 that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life. It all starts with having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand
 the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with. Whether it be at work,
 whether it be at home. The best way to do that is to go to Chrissacrittle.com/store and get your
 personality profile and personality profiles for your team to date. Get it for your family members.
 Today, as you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to Chrissacrittle.com/store2day.
 So number three, number three, if you're going to live your best life,
 is how can you serve God? Use your search for your best life as a form of worship to the very one
 who made you. So here's the key thought here. Man kind is not an end in itself.
 The chief aim of mankind believe it or not. And you've probably heard this, but we probably don't
 really get this a lot of time. How do we know that? Because we don't see a lot of people doing it.
 The chief aim of mankind is to glorify God. Taking all of our creative energies and worshiping
 the one who gave them to us is part of living our best lives. Let me say that again.
 When we take the creative energies that God already put in us, and we use those specific energies
 to worship God. That is part of living our best life. As we go through our Bible study, we do
 a Bible study on Tuesday nights and one of the things that I often will say to our ecclesias,
 hey folks, everybody here is wired with gifts and talents from God. Seek, look inside, dig, pray,
 find out what those gifts and talents are and bring those to the group, to the community.
 There is no hierarchy and the body of Christ, although we see it all the time in churches and all
 over the place where we see this hierarchy. That is not what he set up. Every one of you,
 every one of us has gifts and talents of God. And if we're not utilizing, it's because we come from
 bad teaching that only some special person has that. Only some special pastor, some special singer and
 a worship band or something like those are the ones that actually truly have the talents and gifts
 from God. That is absolutely false. God in every believer has imprinted, implanted himself.
 And he has gifts and talents for every single one of us. The question is, what does he put in you?
 What's inside of you that you can use to start worshiping him and what we say here is by serving
 other people? How do you take the gifts and talents that he's put in you in worship God by serving
 others with those very gifts and talents? So something that is important for us to understand
 is that who we're living, who we're being right now, may not be the very authentic being that God
 created inside of us. Most every single person that we see has this chasm between who they authentically
 are and who they're living out. So what are the things that can't tell you who you really are
 and what you really meant to do? Let's take a look. Your circumstances. They can't tell you who you
 really are and what you're meant to do. Your past experiences. They can't tell you who you are. They don't
 define who you are. Now, however, there is one great benefit to your past experiences. It does
 tend to God and direct us if we use those past experiences to make better decisions that will help us
 in better decision making, but it still doesn't tell you who you really are and what you're meant to do.
 And your failures or successes. The great thing about failure is if we actually learn from our failures,
 then we learn to make better decisions. What's the great thing about successes? It points out how
 much better it is to learn from our failures. There is a great line in a movie that we just absolutely
 love. It's called a good year where this uncle is telling his nephew that he should celebrate
 his losses the same way he celebrates his victories. A man learns nothing from winning, but he learns a lot
 from losing one of those things is how much greater it is to win. So think about it if we use those
 failures and we learn instead of hide from them instead of be ashamed of them if we learn from our failures
 then it teaches us how to make better decisions. However, even all of that still doesn't tell us
 who we really are and what we're meant to do. The only thing that can tell you who you are is the one who created
 you. The only one who can give you worth and actual literal worth, I mean like literally something
 that lasts longer than five minutes is the one who created you. So how can you begin today using your time,
 your talents, your resources, your God given wiring to give back to the one who's given us
 everything. It starts with taking a really hard look at who you are, what you've been through,
 what you've experienced, what you're doing right, what you're doing wrong, discovering all those things
 that are holding you back from being the person that he wants you to be. Believe it or not,
 your best life isn't this ridiculous idea of being a person who's on a pedestal, a person who's admired
 by people, a person who's famous, your best life is not found in any of those things. If you know
 anybody famous, if you know anybody who has been put on a platform, put on a stage, lift it up,
 then I can guarantee you this. If you sit down and have an authentic conversation with them what
 you would discover is, that's not their best life. It sure seemed like it would be. It sure seemed like it
 would make them super happy, but that's not the best life. And what they keep seeking over and over and
 over again is more fame, more appraise and applause because what they've had is not enough. Instead,
 if you will focus on the things that you've been through and the things that are holding you back
 and the failures and successes in life and then take a hard look at who God wired you to be and ask yourself,
 what does God want me to look like? What does my father, who is a loving father, who desires the
 best for me and the best isn't always what I think is the best, it's what he thinks is the best,
 what does he want my life to look like? And since he is my father, how much does he want me to
 follow his ways, not this ridiculous message that says he doesn't want me to follow his ways at all? How
 much does he want me to do the things that make him happy instead of the things that make me happy?
 If I will focus on what's holding me back from being the best version that he created me to be
 and I will start putting those things in place and I will use it to worship him and I will use those
 gifts and talents and authentic self to serve others. That's when I start to live my best life.
 Along the way, this is a long journey asking anyone who's been through next level of life, there's a
 lot to this. It is a long journey. So here's what I want you to do, rejoice in the journey.
 We here in America are the kind of people who are always looking for that destination so we can
 get to that destination and once we get to that destination then it's the if then if I get to
 that destination then I'll be happy. Rejoice in the journey. Find joy in finding out who you really are.
 Find joy in getting unstuck in life. Find joy in finding your authentic self. Do these things
 and then use all that to worship God and also worship Him by serving others. Well folks, I hope this
 is helped you today. As always, you want you to take this information, change your leadership,
 change your business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]