 What every new and old leader needs to know or remember about what it really takes to get others to follow you.
 That's coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. Hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 We are again.
 We are joined by the fantastic Brian Alex who is joining me from Sicily, Sicilia.
 Welcome Brian. Welcome to the show.
 Thank you. It's been a while.
 I thought I was going to go back into the schedule. I mean, people really miss me. That's so much fun.
 That's exactly it.
 So much fan mail.
 Lots of it.
 They keep sending it. It's like Brian Alex and Sicily. That's like, you know,
 We're just keeping sending it.
 We are, you have come up with a fantastic series that we are doing.
 And we've just been loving this. People have been loving this.
 So we are doing this series. This kind of bite sized hit this one topic.
 Let's run with it. What is the foundational thing you need to know?
 So take it away for today's episode.
 All right. So yeah, another how to come and act you here.
 I'm going to set up the context. Just like we do try to balance it out.
 We'll go to break and we'll come back with the question.
 And then it's all Chris.
 Take it away, Chris.
 So here's the context.
 You've probably heard the phrase that you're not a leader if no one is following you.
 Right?
 So I guess that's true.
 I mean, however, we have a lot of so-called leaders,
 or what have you on various platforms nowadays who have a mask quite the following.
 But in part, very little actual value to other.
 If I can say that, oops, my growing influence or influence or mega influence.
 Everybody's trying to influence or lead.
 And so we talk so much about leadership around here that I wanted to take a step back for a second
 from all the principles and techniques and drill down into what are the most important
 concepts of all?
 What does it take to really get someone to start following me to begin with?
 Where does it start?
 How does it begin?
 And so coming up next, being a true leader is more than just a growing some followers, isn't it?
 Right after this.
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here.
 I'm the Vice President of Leadership Development on Chris's team.
 And I oversee our next level of Mastermind Business Coaching Program.
 Most business owners and leaders lack a clear path to succeed in business.
 They question whether they're making the right decisions,
 if they're focusing on the right things to really grow their business.
 If this is you, you need a coach in your life.
 Coaches help you make better decisions, navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively,
 and grow your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue,
 and an average of 138% increase in net profit, and regain hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3.5 years, simply because of the results they get.
 So if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting,
 then visit ChrisCarto.com/mastermind.
 Again, ChrisCarto.com/mastermind today.
 [Music]
 Alright, welcome back, Chris.
 And so we're going to jump into our question.
 We set up the context before the break.
 Now let's get into the question.
 Folks are out there who want to get others to start following them,
 maybe on their platformer and their business, whatever, and for their product or service.
 And so how do they get other people to start following them?
 That's the question for today.
 So yeah, there's so much here.
 Again, I love that these are sound bites, because these are such big questions,
 believe they're not.
 And I think it would actually be good to come back to you on this,
 because you've followed me multiple times.
 You've worked for me at the beginning of this business.
 You came back again.
 And I hate to even say the phrase, "Follow."
 You came along side of me in the very beginning.
 You and I started this business on my back porch.
 We always say, "Oh, my back porch for the couple of laptops on a bottle of wine."
 That's how this business started.
 Just planning this thing out of what it was going to look like and trying to take.
 And everything that we felt like God was showing us.
 And obviously you've been a missionary for so many years.
 You came back for almost two years.
 And then our back is really again.
 So the key, you brought something into the question.
 So one of the things that you've heard me say before is if you think you're a leader, turn around.
 If nobody's following you, then technically you're not a leader.
 Right?
 Right?
 There's a world of difference in leading people.
 And as you point it out, what people are trying to do of get followers.
 Right? To be a media sensation doesn't mean that I'm technically leading anybody.
 Right?
 I may have people who are following me.
 I may have people who appreciate the things that I'm doing, teaching whatever.
 But if I'm not technically leading them to a place that I want to get them to.
 And that means that I'm a part of this process.
 That again, I'm not leading.
 I follow people.
 I don't do a whole lot of social media.
 But I do follow people.
 Right?
 And why? Because I'm looking to gain knowledge.
 I'm looking to gain information.
 Hopefully I can gain some wisdom in there.
 So there are people that I, as I do my ear quotes, follow.
 But they're not my leaders.
 Right? They're not leading me.
 They may be leading me to a piece of information.
 To get foundational on what it means to lead people.
 It means that you're helping somebody get somewhere that they wouldn't normally get to.
 If they could get there on their own, then what do they need you for?
 Right? If they can get to that place, that they can do whatever they need to do, what do they need you for?
 So the first key foundational piece is you have to actually have some level of knowledge, wisdom, ability to lead somebody somewhere.
 Doesn't mean that you have to be perfect.
 Doesn't mean that you have to know everything.
 For me, I'm always going to point to my biblical leaders to say, how did they get to where they are?
 If you take a look at Moses, one of our, our Bible heroes, if you would, are, you know, one of those folks that lead people through some of the most difficult situations,
 where people hated him in times where, I mean, it was just so painful.
 It was life threatening.
 He didn't know everything.
 He didn't have all of the answers. He had some of the information.
 The key is, is that he knew that it was his mission to help people get from one place to the next, to continue to follow the vision, to continue to guide them down the path,
 even when they walked, even when they pushed back, even when they called him out and said, "Bad things about him, even when they went against him,
 he knew that that was part of the vision."
 For me, as a leader, I have to look at my team and, again, as I say, you know, "You cheer job as a leader to make your team successful, not the other way around."
 I have to look at the mission of our business. And for me, mission is purpose.
 So the mission for our business is our purpose for existence, right? What is that business exist?
 The mission for my marriage is the purpose for my marriage. What is my marriage exist? My parenting, what is that exist?
 All of these different things should have a purpose, that's what we would call the mission, right?
 So for me, I have to take a look at our mission, worship God by loving people and guiding individuals and organizations to greater perspective.
 We have people tell us all the time, man, you changed my life and we always push back and say, "We didn't change your life.
 We got you all the information or the perspective you needed to make the decisions you actually did it yourself.
 You then went on with that perspective, that the new perspective that you have or the right perspective or the better perspective, and made those changes.
 We can't change somebody's life.
 We can only highly suggest that they take the healthiest bits of information, guide them down that path, even when they struggle, even when they push back, even when it's hard, even when they disagree.
 And help get them to a place where they can make a decision to move forward.
 And they either move forward or they move a different direction, right?
 It's that same thing and leading a team member.
 It's the same thing and leading a family member.
 I have to take a look at the team member and say, "What do I believe or I am right now success looks like for this team member?
 And then how do I get that person there?"
 Which some people are going to say, "Well, what if I don't know this?"
 Oh my gosh, I've been leading people in areas that are way greater than I am.
 What they do, I just know how to lead them to success in those areas.
 I know how to help them to get to that place, the tools, the pushing, the loving, the care concern, all those things that it takes to help somebody be successful,
 is making it all about getting them to that place.
 So if that's the foundational concept of leading, what's the most vital part of it?
 It can never ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, be about me.
 Whenever leading is about me, the leader, it's definitely not about the person I'm trying to lead.
 I cannot lead somebody to a successful place if I'm focused on me.
 I have to be able to get out of me, put me aside, stopping self-centered self-focused, and focus on the person that I'm leading, and help them to get to that success.
 I've got to be able to pull me away and go, "What does this person need?
 What, what help do they need? What tools do they need? What lessons do they need?
 What partnerships do they need? What resources?
 What is everything that this person needs? What push do they need?
 What correction do they need? I need to be able to get me out of the way, look at them as objectively as I possibly can, and I know that's very difficult,
 and then set them up for success.
 And when they push, and they struggle, and a lot of times, what is a person who's being led into an uncomfortable place to push back?
 A cues become victims, attack. There's all kinds of negative sides that can come from leading people to a successful place as well.
 I have to be in that place, being able to say, "That's okay, that's not about you."
 Unless I'm doing, I always ask myself first, am I doing something wrong? Am I hurting this person?
 I've done something that was not right, whatever.
 It was check me first, and if the answer is no, but it's not me. Okay, then is this person struggling with how the contentious it is, whatever it is on that person's level.
 So, foundationally, I must understand that leadership is getting somebody someplace where they wouldn't normally go, and it better be in a benefit place, hopefully in a God beneficial place.
 And the second thing is, if I have that information that I have to understand whenever it's about me, it will never be about making that person greatly successful.
 Yep, fantastic. All of that points to something right underneath the surface.
 Teddy Roosevelt, 100 years ago, said, "Nobody cares how much you know until they know how much you care."
 And then Robert McNamara, I love this quote, former business executive and US Secretary of Defense, says, "Brains are like hearts. They go where they are appreciated."
 And so, people tend to follow those whom they believe have their best interest at heart.
 And I think that's one reason people come back around so much as clients here because they see the heart underneath the surface.
 It's not just about getting them to a better place. It's really because you love and you care about people.
 And I think if people want to start getting others to follow, they've got to cultivate that heart for other people.
 Yeah, absolutely. So, the question to you without blown, you know, any sunshine, why have you, and again, so the people can hear the people.
 So the people. So the people. Let the masses hear.
 Let the masses hear. What was compelling for you to come alongside me to make this thing start?
 Well, you know, it is a lot about people go just like I said, where they feel like people have their best interest at heart.
 And something that you've done, you know, we've known each other Chris over over 20 years now.
 Yeah, and I know that's a long time.
 You're your old.
 I know. I was just a young pop.
 But you know, in that time, what I can say is that you have consistently had my best interest at heart.
 And you know, that brings people back, that brings all the boys to the yard.
 That brings people back around because because they know, they know, you know, this person is not going to mince.
 It's not going to manipulate or try to use me, you know, and they're genuinely looking out for my best interest. And I think that's so rare in the industry of leadership today.
 And I think that's a great place to start is cultivating what we talk about at the Poimaine group, the pastoring, the shepherding that happens.
 We're cultivating, you know, we're nourishing, we're caring, we're leading people to greater perspective. Why?
 Because we love people. We love people. And I think that shines and it comes through and everything hopefully.
 It comes through and everything that we do.
 Who was a really good answer? I was like, man, this could go anywhere. I don't know where this is.
 You don't know. You don't know.
 I can take it.
 I hope this is helped you today. And as always, take this information.
 Change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]