 For some people, it's not the opinions of others that they fear most, but their own.
 How to stop being your own worst critic right after this.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardosho, where we discuss leadership and life.
 And discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 Hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 It is a great day here in Tennessee.
 Brian, how was it in Sicily?
 We're having a fabulous day where I am.
 There you go, fabulous day all around.
 (laughing)
 Globally.
 Globally.
 Joining me on the show is Brian Alex again from Sicily.
 Welcome, welcome, welcome.
 And we're doing a bit back.
 It's good to have you, we're doing this three parts series.
 I didn't never ask you how many parts there.
 Maybe more.
 Who knows?
 So we're on our 99th part now.
 We're doing this series of foundationally tackling a question.
 And so Brian's going to hit me up with this next question.
 And I love this because all I get to see on my end is how to stop being.
 So I don't know where we're going.
 It's so man, this could be a very interesting conversation.
 We don't know where we're going.
 I don't know.
 So take it away, brother.
 Well, we did a series years ago about eight negative people to avoid.
 Do you remember that?
 Do you remember what the eighth person was about that person?
 You said, you can damage you like no one else can.
 Yeah, you can be your own worst critic.
 I mean, just think about some of, I mean, we do next level of lives all the time.
 These events, these many life changing events that we do.
 And people come in with all these thoughts and the negative tapes that play.
 I'm not good enough.
 I'll never be smart enough.
 Attractive enough.
 Good enough to be at a higher level in my business.
 I'll always have to prove myself.
 I'll never be good enough for a great relationship.
 Never be worthy of this or that or this family member or all the people in my life.
 It's set or set or set.
 We have all of these tapes that play.
 And so here's the context.
 I'm going to set up the context, try to balance it out.
 We'll go to a break.
 We'll come back.
 I'll deliver the question and then it's all you.
 So the world that we live in could be compared to kind of a carnival's fun house
 of mirrors.
 Right?
 We're getting feedback all the time.
 And we've hit on this before about these people approval platforms that we get on.
 We get all these crazy sources of life informing us of who we are, who we should be, how
 to think or believe about ourselves.
 But at the end of the day, we've got to judge the veracity, the truth of it all.
 And this kind of predisposes us to be a little bit harsh on ourselves because we're
 never measuring up to all of the mirrors around us.
 But there's a deeper root of self-loathing here that I want to get to.
 And so coming up next, what does it look like to get free from being your own worst critic?
 That's right after this.
 Freedom.
 It's so powerful.
 I don't rejuvenate and almost renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So I was very comfortable there.
 That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it.
 It's going to be hard, but it's going to be even better on the other side.
 For me, it was just a very refreshing.
 And I want to say life giving to me, it really was.
 You know, I would go to the next level of life again and probably again.
 Because it's so powerful.
 I want you to ask yourself a question, could you hear the sense of hope and freedom?
 And their voice is just that.
 I want you to know that could be you.
 Look, it's easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns and unhealthy relationships.
 It's going to take some work, but yes, there is hope for you.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of self-awareness
 and freedom that they have, or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like for you,
 then head on over to ChrisLecordo.com/nextlevellife.
 Welcome back.
 So we've set up the context.
 Now let's get into the question.
 Chris, how can people truly stop being their own worst critic?
 You can't.
 Just accept it.
 Just, no, let's just say, no, let's just accept it.
 Please, please let it out, Peter.
 Here's the thing.
 We have to go back to again, something we discussed on another episode, which is your so
 much of your worth is coming from the suggestions of
 the opinions of other people, or just the flat out suggestions of other people.
 So without going into all of that detail, we have to recognize that when we sell sabotage,
 there's one thing and so many women will say, when they struggle with how they look or something
 that they're experiencing, and we will dig in, it's like, who are you worried about?
 Oh, I'm not worried about anybody.
 It's my own opinion of me.
 No, no, it's me.
 Time after time after time, we will hear that same thing.
 And as we dig deeper, what we discover is it's actually not.
 What they tell themselves on the surface and men do this all the time, just with other areas.
 But this is just such a easy example for us to go, oh my gosh, I see that all the time.
 We say, oh, I'm only worried about myself.
 I'm concerned, I'm judging me, no, you're judging you because you know that A, the world is
 and B, that you have a tendency to judge others as well according to the same thing you're
 judging yourself on.
 When you dig in, now again, on the surface, whenever we would have those conversations or whenever
 we do have those conversations, the initial response says, no, no, no, no, that's not true.
 When you dig into it and you pull little pieces here here, well, what's this, what's this,
 what's this, all of a sudden it becomes very clear.
 Same thing with guys.
 When you look at guys, I'm only picking one topic, right?
 When you look at guys on the need to be significant in a manly way.
 Well, I'm not going out to this thing or doing that or trying to create this or make this, you
 know, be successful over here because anything but me.
 It's only, it's only about me.
 It's only just something that I want to do.
 When you dig deep down inside, there is a suggestion of you're not good enough if you don't.
 You should be doing this thing, right?
 So it has nothing to do with gender.
 It's not women's specific men's specific.
 I'm just using a couple of examples and I think most everybody can quickly hear those and go,
 if I'm being honest with myself, yep, I may struggle with one of those pieces, right?
 And maybe you don't then it's something else, right?
 You don't just critique yourself on one area.
 You critique yourself on four billion different areas.
 So if we understand that the major problem is is that I'm really self-sabotaging because I'm
 worried about what people think.
 I don't look good enough.
 I'm not funny enough.
 I'm not smarter enough.
 I'm not successful enough.
 I don't have enough stuff compared to the neighbor.
 The neighbor's got a bigger house.
 I've got a better car.
 My team members have more kids.
 Somebody else has a better family.
 Whatever the thing is, we are beating ourselves up because of this belief that we are not
 good enough.
 We're not worthy enough.
 Now, for a lot of people, I will say this and next level of life is something that takes
 us two days to get through this process.
 But for most people, there's what we would call the roots.
 It's not most people every single person who walk in this planet has a root system.
 There's a level of deposits that exist that have helped them to form their decision-making
 processes.
 What we would call the surface level of responses as well as one of the most self-sabotaging
 things what we call the lies.
 Every single person lies to themselves about things about them.
 Even the person that goes, "I don't lot of myself when you spend 15 minutes all of a sudden
 they can come up with a good list of my gosh I didn't realize I tell myself this.
 I tell myself that I tell myself this over here."
 There's a ton of lies that we tell ourselves and unfortunately we believe them now.
 A lot of those lies have come from other people, other situations.
 We may have a parent who continuously communicates by holding back love that we're not good enough.
 We have done something wrong that's caused them to hold back love.
 We may have a parent that constantly tells us to a sibling or a cousin or somebody else.
 We may have a parent and I'm just using parents here because that's where a lot of our deposits
 come from.
 It goes to family members, siblings, teachers, coaches, friends in school.
 I can think of times in school.
 I think everybody can think through times in school where some kid is having a bad day and
 you become their target.
 For me, I was a people-pleaser like crazy.
 I became a target a lot.
 People enjoyed being able to try and tell me something was wrong with me because they were
 having a bad day and they knew that I wouldn't push back.
 It wasn't until God wrapped me upside the head with a two-by-four and told me to grow a backbone
 and stop people pleasing.
 Starting learning what unhealthy people pleasing is compared to healthy serving in a godly way
 and being able to have healthy boundaries.
 If I'm going to stop being my own worst critic, I must first understand that I'm criticizing
 myself and it is way deep but it's based on the fact that I'm concerned about the judgments
 and the opinions of other people.
 The second thing is, I must discover and I believe you cannot do this.
 We have believers and non-believers at that follow the show.
 So speaking to believers, I believe you cannot do this by making the statement while I'm a child
 of God.
 It doesn't mean anything to just say your child of God if you don't understand what that means.
 So many times I'll ask somebody, what does that mean?
 Well, that means that I'm a son or I'm a starter.
 What does that mean?
 Well, that he accepts me and he died from it.
 What does that mean?
 When you dig dig dig dig dig dig, we have grown up in these churches that don't dig in and
 teach us God's word to a great degree.
 They teach us soundbites.
 We get three different scripture verses in a bunch of personal stories and that's it.
 We have rockstar preachers now and rockstar bands and all this stuff instead of knowing
 God instead of knowing Him instead of knowing His character instead of digging in and finding
 out what does the God, the King of the universe, God Almighty say about me.
 Now, what is scripture for?
 It's for us to learn.
 If you ask somebody in a Western Christian society by the way, they'll say, oh, you should read
 the Bible for what it says about you.
 Nobody in a Middle Eastern lens would look at it that way.
 Nobody in a Hebrew, he brave cleanse would go, you should read the Bible for what it says
 about you.
 Why?
 Because it's not about you.
 It's about the King of the universe.
 It's about God.
 It's about Him.
 We read it to discover Him and as we discover Him, it teaches us about us.
 What did He do with the children of Israel at Mount Sinai?
 He taught them who He was.
 Then he taught them who they were.
 That was super important to understand who we are as His kids.
 We're not just children.
 We are those that if we follow His ways, then actually we become inheritors.
 When you discover that there is a powerful, all-knowing, all-loving God who loves, who also
 corrects, who judges, who dishes out blessings, who also dishes out corrections, when you
 discover what He truly believes of you and thinks about you.
 When you take this concept and by the way, let me throw this in there, you cannot
 think.
 It is impossible to understand the New Testament until you understand the Old Testament.
 All of these folks who think that the Old Testament is antiquated and not needed, the New Testament
 didn't exist.
 Nobody wrote anything in the New Testament thinking.
 We're going to put together a whole new book.
 Everything that happened in those ministries was based on the Old Testament.
 The more you recognize that, you start to see God's true love for us and His desire to
 be patroth to us, to carry us forward.
 We are the bride of Yeshua.
 We are the bride of Christ.
 We are the bride who's going forward to the marriage ceremony.
 If we do it, His way, not the world's way, not our way, not even a bunch of the bad teaching
 that's out there.
 Instead, if we follow what God says about us, that we are fearfully and wonderfully made
 in His image, that if we do the things that He tells us to do, He reveals to us.
 He blesses us.
 He brings us things into our lives that cause us to know Him more, to love Him more, to experience
 Him more.
 All these people that are out there teaching don't do any of that stuff, just show up to church
 and spend an hour in church and you're good to go.
 God's happy with that.
 There's no relationship there.
 He's looking for a relationship.
 The greater relationship you have with God, the greater relationship you have with God, the less
 you self-sabotage and critique and destroy yourself because of what man thinks about you.
 The greater relationship you have with Yeshua, which we call him Jesus, but his actual
 name is Yeshua.
 The greater relationship you have with Yeshua, the less you care about Frank's opinion
 of you, Sarah's opinion over here, that's telling you that you're a horrible person and you should
 do everything that pleases them and you do everything wrong and the more you see what God
 thinks about you and now He cares about you, the less you care about what man thinks about
 you.
 That is the ultimate first step of getting rid of the lies that you tell yourself.
 I'm not good enough.
 I'm not worthy enough.
 I'm not pretty enough.
 I'll never have a good enough spouse.
 I'll never have a good enough career.
 My brother is better than I am.
 My parents don't like whatever that thing is, those lies that you tell yourself.
 When you discover God's love for you, then you can start bringing the truths to the battle
 and when you battle the lies with the actual truths and the truths are rarely ever the opposite
 of the lie.
 Usually I have to find out why am I telling myself that and then get to that truth.
 When you bring those to the table, man, it's a much more equal battle.
 In fact, matter of fact, it's a much more powerful battle on the side of the truth.
 You can destroy the lies.
 You can get through them a heck of a lot quicker and be less of a self sabotaging self critic.
 Does all that make sense?
 Yeah, that's beautiful.
 Just to kind of sum up, if we really want to get free from beating ourselves up all the time
 being our own worst critic, then we've got to start accurately assessing our own self-worth,
 not in the mere the funhouse mirror, like the metaphor we started with, of the world's opinions
 and all of the platforms that are for people pleasing out there.
 But in the mirror of God's word, ultimate truth about who he is and who he says that we are
 to him.
 I think that is freedom right there for the grabbing and I hope people will take hold of that.
 So, folks, I hope this has helped you today as always.
 Take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us
 on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]