 Learning the best way to make a fresh start after a major life change that's coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks hope you're having a fabulous day where you are.
 I am joined by one Sicilian. Well actually I'm Sicilian too so there's two of us Sicilians but
 one's actually in Sicily and one fortnight Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel Joel
 one's actually in Sicily and one fortet at Joel Joel Joel I don't even know what you want to. I don't even have a state or a country or anything.
 No, no, no, no, no. One, one knocks county in from east Tennessee.
 Reminds me of Tom Hanks and an airport for some reason. No, no, no. Yes.
 Where are we? Stay on this country. Oh my goodness that is awesome. So we are doing another three rules
 episode which you guys have just loved this and we have loved it too. This is fun for us.
 Brian's goal is always one thing. It's not really actually getting you guys quality information.
 It's for Joel and I to disagree. He's looking for that disagreement at some point.
 Fight fight fight fight fight. So.
 First rule of fight club. So Brian why don't you take it away and explain what we're doing today.
 Okay well we're back to we're back to three rules and you know for those who haven't
 haven't heard this before or heard one of these episodes I'm going to read a rule and it's
 associated rationale. And then what of you guys will kind of kick it off within immediate reaction.
 Maybe you love it. Maybe hate it. Maybe you want to modify it to fit your perspective or
 experience and the other person kind of ways in agreeing disagree. Just remember the more disagreement
 the more entertaining and hopefully informative. And so the point is that the listener hopefully
 takes away from all of the ideation and deliberation that goes in each point a greater perspective. And so
 what I'm going to do right now is I'm just going to set up the context and do a little explanation
 we'll go into some comments and then we'll break. We'll come back from the break and get into the first
 rule. So today's topic is three rules for making a fresh start. Sorry I like to think about
 it at the end of the game. But it's a joke. If we actually get one of these episodes never start a
 line or let war with a. The scene. The scene. So I'd be fesic Brian with the
 city. Andre the giant. No. Wait a minute. I would be here in the big guy. Obviously for all of who are
 listening they're going what the crap just happened. We're putting Princess Brad. We're going to really
 back up. All day, all day today. I mean I started it on our team meeting this morning. I would be
 whip up a quest. I would be mentally. I would be a negative person. Obviously I couldn't choose
 the cup that's in front of you. This has zero value. We're deciding about if we
 hopefully it's entertaining though for you. I'll just ask all three listeners right there.
 Let's try to read our selves a little bit here. Let's get into the subject matter. Okay so
 we're talking about making a fresh start. We need a fresh start. Right now let's make a fresh start.
 Okay how do we do that? That is the topic. Three rules. All right so here's the deal. A lot of people
 feel like they need a fresh start in life. Especially after a major failure, a major life change,
 a disruption to the course that they're on. I mean folks familiar with the phrase Dark Knight of the
 soul will appreciate this that you know in counseling circles it's suggested that the average
 adult in their lifetime will go through five to seven Dark Knights of the soul in their lifetime. What
 are we talking about? We're talking about major life events, divorce, bankruptcy, loss of a love one,
 loss of a job or career, loss suits, imprisonment even. Every time the apple cart turns over,
 there's a complete change in our way of life the way that we do things especially after we've been
 unsuccessful in life. And so let's just talk about that for a second how scratching the surface here.
 But the life change that we're talking about is something that we deal with a lot in next level of life.
 Isn't it? Yeah it's funny as you're talking through that. Some of the things that you mentioned
 are big and you know Brian having been in prison yourself you could probably
 speak most of the times. Shut up that's all rude. I meant what do you think? I meant nothing. I mean
 I mean they got met in different country. Try to escape. There's no
 extradition from Sicily to America so I won't tell you how many of those things I can mark off but
 but in prison it is not one of them yet. The yet. I think the thing is is that gosh so I want to be
 the things that you throughout they're all pretty darn big things right? Those are dark nights.
 Those are difficult things. Those are tough things that we experience.
 So I want to as we go through this I want to make sure that we're not combining this with
 crazy victim mentality of you know I didn't get a BMW when I was 16 but my older sister did and so
 therefore it's a dark night of my soul. I got stuck with a Volvo. I gave right yeah I think the
 thing that we need to do is we need to say we're not talking about crazy victim mentality. I mean
 I'm assuming I assume that's where you're going. We're talking about you know legitimate
 deep painful difficult things to process to experience through. Do we see that in next level
 life all the time? Is it every event? No. We have folks that come through that have never had a
 dark night in their soul right that have never had you know difficult times they just want better they
 want to live their life better they want to make better decisions but then we have all so we have
 from the hey nothing badge really ever happened all the way to the good night this has been such a
 difficult life and so many things that are loaded up so we have all between we've done over
 450 events we gotta get this number down we gotta be getting close to 500 at this point
 and we see I would say probably 75% plus we see pretty heavy duty events somewhere in there would you
 agree with that Joel? Hey here's your opportunity to disagree is that 75 plus or less.
 No I disagree it's 72. There you go there is there's the 74% I have tracked that.
 Okay so yes is the answer it was a very long answer Brian but yes is the answer.
 Yes all right so coming up next the rules that you need to follow in order to successfully make a fresh
 start right after this. Freedom it's so powerful. I don't rejuvenate and almost renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment so
 was very comfortable there. That had a really big impact on me. It's going to be worth it. It's going to be
 hard but it's going to be even better on the other side for me it was just a very refreshing and
 I'm going to say life giving to me and really was. You know I would go to the next of the life
 again and probably again and probably again because it's so powerful. I want you to ask your
 self a question could you hear the sense of hope and freedom and their voice is just that. I want you to know
 that could be you. Look it's easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns and
 unhealthy relationships. It's going to take some work but yes there is hope for you. If you want to
 experience the same kind of life transformation the same kind of self-awareness and freedom that they
 have or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like for you then head on over to
 Chrisacordo.com/nextlevellife.
 Alright welcome back folks here's how we play I'm going to read a rule associated rationale. We'll have
 hopefully some very entertaining disagreement. We haven't had that yet. I keep waiting for it.
 We haven't had entertaining disagreement or just disagreement because you know.
 I refuse to comment but hopefully we're leading people the greater perspective that's the point here.
 So let's jump in the rules for making a fresh start. All of us need that at some point in our lives.
 How do we do it? Here we go. Rule number one feel free to disagree and push back. The more the
 the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the more the
 I'm going to say there is a season turn turn. So rule number one you've got to make a clean break from your past. Yes, no, pass the buck. Here you go.
 Joel, you're up. No I don't agree with the rule. First of all I think it's nearly impossible to make a clean break
 from your past. When you look at it from a root system perspective if you're new to listening to this show,
 think about all the influence that you've allowed in that has shaped you the events and circumstances you've been through that
 have shaped you. We don't make clean breaks necessarily. Even when we pinch a limb swing because it's like I will never
 go through that again. I'll never repeat that again. Stuff comes with you or our decision making process is come with us.
 So it's not only hard to make a clean break. You also don't have to make a clean break because if you make a clean break like in my minds,
 that means I'm moving on. I'm forgetting it or I'm going to shove it under the rug and it's going to stay there or buried.
 Rather than how was this shaped me? How do I learn from that? What has it taught me?
 How is it now shaped me maybe even in negative ways that I don't even realize that have impacted me or impacted my emotions or impacted
 me in ways that now my responses are coming out as more controlling or less controlling or now I'm more passive as a result of this
 thing I went through or now I'm a massive people pleaser and then we never learn to make the connections between all of those
 super difficult things we go through and now how it's impacting us and how we're now relating to other people or now we're
 shifting our life in this direction and because I'll never do that again. I'm going to move to Sicily and
 I'll review video calls and you know can't ex-title me just really just really you know goofy things like that
 instead of this thing here and hanging out with your friends I mean but you know I'm not judging anyone if anyone's hearing that
 you're just not hearing me right. I'm not receiving judgment at all over the world. Yeah, I hope you're not.
 I hope you're not. I've received judgment for you on that one. Thank you Chris.
 Oh yeah, yeah, even the Knox County and received judgment and I'm the one you dish it out.
 So that's that those are my new disagree comments to the rule. I am disagreeing to the rule.
 That's so funny because as you read this off Brian I said to myself this may have the ability for
 Jolini to have the first disagreement and nope he went exactly you know it had the ability.
 It had the ability like I was like if you went with it that I was going to come and go I disagree and of course
 phenomenal answer. I think the key here is the concept of a clean break which Jol pushed on many times right
 when we say clean break when we when people talk about a clean break it is that it just think of that
 knife coming down and slashing your past from your present. That is a horrid way to handle a situation.
 No, I'm not saying there isn't times that you must remove yourself completely from a situation. I totally
 believe there are times that we talk about some people that are in such bad relationships such bad situations
 that they must remove themselves from the situation right because it is toxic and unhealthy
 and to stay there just continues to make them toxic and unhealthy. So there is a removal there's no
 such thing as a clean break you don't get rid of it you don't lose it you don't forget about it you don't
 stop experiencing it right. In fact what we see over and over and over again in every single
 person's life that comes to next level of life is so much of what's happened in the past is actually
 helping especially if they're allowing God to do it to shape who they are going forward right.
 So to clean break from the situations in my past I have some crappy situations in my past right there's
 so many things that I experienced that allow me to be able to teach people because of some bad
 things that have happened and some bad decisions I've made as well right it's not you know not everything
 has happened to me I've put myself in situations for bad things to happen and people to treat me
 bad ways but then I've done the same thing I've treated people bad ways right so the key to
 understand is is that if you just cut it off it's the idea that I've been able to
 remove the situation from my life that does not exist how do we know that as people who do this
 for a living we see it in your surface level responses we see it in your lies the lies that you tell
 yourself and the decisions that you make we can see that those are still being based on something that
 has happened in the past that you've not gotten through so instead of having a clear cut which clean cut which
 just doesn't exist there is no cleanliness to cutting off the past what we do is not I we praise
 God that there are counselors out there people have counselors to talk to we love it when
 counselors come through next level life because every time they're like man I wish I could do this
 instead of learning how to deal with learning how to cope with we help people to get to the why why does this
 exist and here's the reason why when you deal with something you cope with something you don't necessarily
 get rid of it when you learn why it exists then you can make different decisions going forward
 so instead of making a clean cut instead of what we do is help somebody to go let me understand the
 situation not relive it not go through it like it was yesterday let me understand it better
 so that I can make better decisions going forward all right great and that takes us to rule number two
 which really is a great segue into what you were just talking about about making better decisions going
 forward rule number two is this take that first next step forward going forward in the direction you want
 to go here here's the rationale maybe you've you've gone through that transition you know that you can't
 make a clean break completely from the past you've learned from those mistakes you're ready to make different
 decisions but you're feeling stuck and stagnation is just going to kill the desire and the motivation
 to move forward so determine the direction you want to go and take a step maybe that starts with a
 personal mission statement determining a new career path relationship goal what have you but
 rule number two take the first next step what do you think with the rule I totally agree you do need
 to take the first next step I completely agree with that concept the one thing I would push back on is
 determining which way you want to go here's the reason why many people will self-sabotage
 with that first next step I've seen people come out of bad relationships bad situations bad religions
 and their next step becomes like Joel pointed out that pendulum swing so far away so they're unhealthy
 where they are and instead of swinging to healthy they pendulum swing right past it to unhealthy on a
 different direction different version you know Brian there's people you and I know in our past that
 came out of about religion that just one ballistic the opposite direction and started making really bad
 decisions come from a different direction right there there's things like that that I want to make
 sure that the the next step is the healthiest next step you can make now for me what I would highly
 suggest highly highly highly suggest do what you can to find somebody who appears no appears isn't
 good enough where you can see the health in their life you know one of the things that we say in
 Christianity is if you can't see the fruits of the spirit then they're not being led by the spirit right
 so if you don't have somebody who's operating in a very healthy way this is not the person to go to
 for that next step right but if you can find somebody who is not trying to take you down not trying to
 control manipulate you not try to tell you that you're horrible person not making really bad decisions in
 the lives you know don't go find that person you know who's living that free life by making really
 bad decisions with partying and alcohol and whatever and you know not having any good care
 concerned for the life if you can find somebody who is healthy the healthiest person you can find
 and start digging into what would make me healthy or what are those next steps right so for me that's
 what I would I would point to I'd be very cautious on a lot of the books and stuff that's out there
 nowadays a lot anybody can put a book out there on what your next step should be and unfortunately
 so many thought leaders or supposed thought leaders are publishing stuff on becoming incredibly
 selfish and self-centered so I'd be very cautious about that look for health yeah I would agree with
 them I would agree with those things that Chris is saying the next sometimes when we take a next step
 the next step is is to surface level especially for coming from super difficult things we need to
 realize especially if we've gone through things that have have created pain brokenness and some way
 that we acknowledge what those wounds are we acknowledge that we are not as healthy I'm coming out of it
 so we don't need to need to often go read a book we need to actually get deeper help and we need some
 restoration and we need some perspective on where am I right now how did I get to where I was in my life
 anyway how did I get to where that terrible thing happened what do I need to learn about how I make decisions
 that's very in the shadows if you will because often we are so trained as people and we make
 our decisions and we don't have great perspective on how we make decisions because we're not really
 digging into well why why and why and really having clarity as to the why and those layers of why
 because we often miss what are we seeking and what are we going after that seems good and seems right
 but turns out it's not it is creating self-sabotage Chris to your point and we've got it's
 better to go after health because we're operating at a deeper level rather than staying at just
 surface level solution all right thanks guys for that coming up next the third rule you need to
 follow in order to leave your past behind you that's up next folks if you've been listening to me
 for any length of time then you know the number one issue when it comes to business when it comes to
 family when it comes to friendships is having a lack of high quality communication to make sure
 that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life it all starts with having great communication
 the best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand
 the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with whether be at work or
 there be at home the best way to do that is to go to christacriddle.com/store and get your personality profile
 and personality profiles for your team two day get it for your family members two day as you go through
 that profile you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate go to christacriddle.com/store
 two day all right welcome back guys we have two rules under the belt so to speak
 here we go with the third let's let's assume for the moment that we have this new direction
 and we've established where we're going the hits keep coming the hits keep coming and so we
 we know where we're going and so here's rule number three let's see if we can get at least
 any measure of agreement. You know as I've been writing these I've been trying to
 imagine where the conversation would go and hopefully we're getting a little bit more art in the craft here
 because I'm getting more push back and this is what I'm after but I'm wanting to see some disagree
 okay wishful thinking but rule number three here we go number three is don't look back
 so rehearsing past mistakes longing for the good old days etc we're just going to get you in trouble
 the image that comes to mind is a little bit like lots wife as they're fleeing and you know
 they're getting away from one situation they're going towards their future and the ad
 mission is don't look back what do you guys think rule number three I'll start
 I have potential it's like potential it has it has it depends on what what kind of looking
 back are you doing if it's the well it's not such a there we go if it has the don't look back
 because you're trying to make the clean cut we've already hopefully debunked that with our
 you know see previous conversation but if you're looking back if you're looking back to actually do
 the other things we talked about see previous conversation then you're you're going to do much better
 in your life there there does come there just if you're looking back and you're just in your
 just living in self-loathing and oh I wish it was that way now so you're now living in what regret
 you're now living in anger you're now living in bitterness or sadness or resentment or victim
 mentality where does that get anybody nowhere those are the surface of our responses we have to understand
 where that stuff is coming from within and deal with those things so we can move forward because
 right now I would be the person that's living you know like Uncle Rico and Napoleon Dynamite
 of the look and for the glory days of being the quarterback and trying to throw the football nine
 million miles and things he can still do it it's like Rico we need to move on and it's a
 it's all a matter of how we're looking back really what you're going to come and get rid of the
 creepy van lean and that there's you know just all that and let's move forward in life here but yeah
 yes don't look back so yeah exactly what you'll said so one of the mistakes that people make
 like when when we go through again I'm going to point to next level life one of the things that we
 we discover is these bad decisions that we all make every single person makes what we call surface
 level responses there's there's decisions that they're making they're not the best they're not
 pointing towards their you know trauthentic self and it's not helping their worth and it's self-sabotization
 there's a bunch of lies that we tell each other all these things are happening right so when we discover
 where those come from sometimes people immediately go oh I don't want to see that anymore you know like
 at the end we we send people you know home with their sheets that they want and we take pictures we do
 all this kind of stuff as we work through these processes so they can have them like yeah I want everything
 but those and it's like no no no no this is something you need to see why don't like looking back
 at that that's the problem when we when we're unwilling to look back what do we always say
 about history why do we teach history so that we don't repeat the same mistakes what do we do
 again the world right now repeating same mistakes on global levels right it's just insane right
 so when I can look back at bad situations bad decisions I've made and take responsibility for them
 that's when I can start making better decisions I'm somebody who learned years ago to say I am a sinner
 I am disgusting I have done stupid crazy painful filthy hurtful things to people and the funny thing
 is as I say that people always have this like shock look on their faces if they've never done anything
 bad or send or you know never hurting buddy the the shock is that I'm able to say it out loud why
 do I say it out loud because when I got to the place of being able to say it out loud I stopped trying to
 hide it to myself I stopped trying to cover it up to myself I stopped trying to not look at my past and go
 well that doesn't exist I don't do that anymore that's not a thing that's not a screw that let's get
 vulnerable here if I'm gonna fix me and make me better and this is why I teach what I teach and why we have
 this business is because I got to play some going forget that get take a hard look at what you've experienced
 what you've been through the bad decision you've made the ways that you've hurt people and stop
 doing it right change adjust add some tools make better decisions get rid of the lies quit doing the
 things that dishonor god dishonor man whatever right start focusing on making better decisions so
 in the sense of I want to hide from my past don't look back no absolutely use it as a tool what
 do we always say about failure failure is a phenomenal teacher for the person who's willing to put it
 to work right if you will actually take the failure learn from it and do something with it and failure is a
 great teacher if all you do is hide from failure then guess what you are doomed to repeat it you are
 going to do it you're gonna make it happen again so instead take a hard look it and go yep I screwed that up
 I failed at something I made a mistake what do I do and we've got the you know at our at our business
 as everybody's heard us say we have a way of fixing problems that solves probably 95 to 97% of problems
 what happened how did it happen why did it happen how do we fix it how do we make sure never happens again
 if we follow those five rules then it's amazing how fast we can get over the mistake right we can get
 over worrying about oh I failed I screwed something up forget that's a waste of time can we fix this
 and move forward and make sure it doesn't happen again so in that aspect that's my answer now in the other
 aspect which I think is what you're going for don't live in the past that is an absolute yes
 that is an absolute I agree there is it is a waste to live in the past and either there's two
 two major ways we do this and either self sabotage oh my gosh look at what I did now you know I am
 a believer I am fully aware that there's an enemy who wants to steal killing destroy us he's out there
 wanting us to live in the mistakes of our past because what happens to us it drags us right back down
 into these bad places where we by self-loath self sabotage make bad decisions if you're going to look at
 your past and beat yourself up it's a waste of time look at your past learn from it fix it move forward
 but what is what do we as humans tend to do we love to hold people to their past mistakes oh Joel you
 remember seven years ago you did this oh Brian you remember nine years ago you did this and we
 let well I don't know if I trust you yet because here's what's in your past oh for the love
 freaking get honest with yourself and admit that you have done stupid when you show it talks to the
 the men that brought the woman out caught in adultery and he says to them hey you know whoever you
 has not seen check that first stone who drops the stones first the old guys what's going through
 the mind of the old guy oh my gosh I have been in her situation so many times I should be stone
 for all the bad crap that I've ever done everything that I've done screw this I can't throw a stone they
 drop their stones when you think and all the way down to the young guys it takes the young guys a while before
 they start dropping their stones right because what are they thinking aren't we supposed to stone or
 look at their own things she's done the more mature you get the more life you get under you the more you
 look back at your life you can say who am I to judge anybody who am I to cast a stone right so
 if we can get past people trying to hold our past to us and here's the thing you may have done
 something incredibly stupid but if you've repented and you're moving in the other direction you keep moving
 no matter how difficult it is for somebody else to get over that it doesn't matter it doesn't matter
 you keep moving forward you focus on God you get better you make better decisions the other way that I
 feel like is a colossal mistake and I have done this 17 billion times myself is when we look on our past
 with glorification I can tell you how many people I love dearly that will look back at the past
 terrible mistakes bad mistakes bad decisions and talk about them in a glorification you know
 glorifying light oh my gosh remember when that happened oh remember when I did this I'll remember
 and it's like there's nothing you're talking about that's good there's nothing that you're talking
 about that's all it's just we're just laughing at it now and I'm not talking about doing silly stupid stuff you
 know you know I don't know you fell off a tree swing once and hurt yourself I'm talking about
 sinful stuff hurtful stuff bad decision making right and glorifying those times and I think that's another
 thing where that is a big mistake is to look back at the past and remember when we stole that car
 and you know we did this crazy thing man there's there's no glory don't glorify that move away from that
 that you didn't help somebody in that time that that's you hurt somebody right you caused somebody damage
 somehow so for me that's the way when I when it's a looking back at the past I think we should totally
 look back to learn and grow abs of stinking literally but do not live in the past there you go
 long right love it so let let me just try to sum up because we've had some revisions to our rules
 finally finally in this series we had some some revisions here I'm gonna sum up and then take final
 comments and we'll wrap up for today so the first rule was about a clean break well that really doesn't
 happen I mean we are messy creatures with messy lives we take a lot of our baggage with us and the idea
 here is about learning from those things and not repeating them and rule number two was about taking a first
 next step well the clarification here is about making sure it's a healthy step in a direction of health
 and growth and that brings us to number three about not looking back we don't look back to glorify
 our past especially sinful mistakes but we we should look back to learn from those failures and again to be
 moving to a place of greater health and growth with that said any final comments about how to make a fresh start
 did you just start a whole new podcast right there?
 I think with what you just summarized recognize that a fresh new start you know we as believers we talk
 about repentance what is it's a militaristic term that means to turn and go the opposite
 direction don't be going in the direction you were a fresh new start requires getting away from the
 things that caused you to be in the place that you were in in the first place. Joel?
 Yeah I think my final comment is just the is when is looking back at your past in a way
 that not only just teaches you but where you even from a believer standpoint where we look and see
 where is God? Where do you see him in your life? Where do you see him moving in your life?
 Where do you see him moving in other people's lives and the circumstances that are in your past?
 How God uses struggle and difficulty to teach us and grow us there are so many things that
 he may bring us into that or tough or maybe things that we bring ourselves into that or tough and
 difficult but praise the sovereign God who may not ever want us to be in certain situations
 but who has love and grace and power that he's able to leverage and take something that he'd rather
 Chris Brian or Joel have not walked themselves into but now he uses it as a loving father to craft
 and mold and refine us to move forward in our life as changed people. So it's still a lot of
 benefit when we look back in this whole learning we've talked a lot of today about what how we can
 look back and see things and then what can we do to springboard in ways forward but it's so important to
 look back and look for God. Yeah I love it it's a beautiful metaphor to end the thought with of this
 ongoing process of refinement there may not be a clean fresh break from our past but there is certainly
 a process of continually being renewed to be refined in the fire to come out better and better and more
 reflecting of his and talking about God's glory and image Chris final thought. I think just wanted
 to jump in there I had to raise my hand here. When we talk about the sanctification process I think
 so many times we do not understand because again in a Western belief system we talk about that everything's
 already done. You don't have to worry about anything. The process of sanctification is that purifying
 process it doesn't stop. God's constantly turning us into who he wants us to be. We didn't get
 finished when we heard about Yeshua and we received salvation right that that was the beginning of the process.
 God is always turning us into his perfecting us will we be perfect on this side of the next life.
 No of course not but he's working on it right he's moving us in that direction. I think that's an
 important thing you know I love that you guys have just talked through this it's important for us to
 recognize we are not done do not expect to be exactly where you could be or where you should be
 follow the process enjoy the journey be curious about what God's going to do and really find
 pleasure in the discovery of becoming sanctified and becoming who he wants you to be.
 Well folks that's all the time we have for today I hope this information has helped you as always
 take what we've said change your leadership change your business change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]