 Doing the hard work of thinking before doing that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardos Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 On today's show we're taking it a departure from our normal format to tackle a few practical topics in a mini series of how to episodes.
 So joining me again on the show is Brian Alex Brian welcome to the show.
 Raise your hand if you're sick of hearing that.
 Everybody's and goes oh not this Brian guy again come on here Chris.
 This is either that foreigner isn't he worthy Sicily what is that very is he who cares people.
 People love people love it. What are you doing on the show again?
 I don't know.
 No, we're we're having fun. We're having so much fun and and I don't know. I hope you know all of the fan mail that comes in as positive.
 I hope everybody's enjoying listening to these how to episodes, but these are these are compact fun little takes on a single topic.
 And I'm excited about today's it's kind of fun. I think so yeah, that's what I'm doing here. What are you doing on your show?
 I don't know. I just found this out.
 I just get this counter movements.
 Everybody in everybody. Jupp. Oh no. All right. I'm love and being able to walk through these how to's because I do love that it's a compact it.
 You know, when you brought this up,
 I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's what I think that's
 I'm going to do it. And that's really what we want to talk about today doing the hard work of thinking planning preparing before engaging in the doing delegating and creating that we talk so much about on this podcast.
 And I imagine that this is probably harder for some personality styles than others and this you know this comes up as we prepare for events. It comes up in our staff meetings.
 And I think that's what comes up in strat plan meetings and all of this, but depending on your personality type you may be more prone towards thinking and calculating and researching.
 Maybe perhaps doing too little actually engaging and executing because it's fun to do everything's perfect and theory everything's perfect and strategy and I love personal.
 And I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think that's a great thing. I think
 And so, and I think that's what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think is what I think
 And so if your worth is coming out of productivity, then you're probably 10 times more of a doer than a thinker and the process because doing is what gets you worth. So there's actually a lot of things that encompass that.
 Yeah, a lot of things going on there. And so what what I'd love, you know, help in today is getting unstuck from that that paralysis, whether it's on one side or the other and how, you know, how this came up.
 There's an old adage that's commonly attributed to Abraham Lincoln. I think modern historians think it's much more recent, but you'll likely remember a quote something along this line.
 There's there's several variations, but if I only had an hour to chop down a tree, I would spend the first 45 minutes sharpening the axe. Another version says six hours and I do the first four sharpening there's a couple others.
 Probably it happened in the in the 1950s that this saying came to be, but the idea was that there was a woodsman who was asked what would you do if you just had five minutes to chop down a tree.
 And he said, I'd spend the first two and a half sharpening my axe and so the idea here is that we somehow get into an engaged mode of execution, especially in our fast pace modern society.
 Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. We get into the office, we just want to, you know, shoot from the hip, make decisions, get things done is where our mindset usually goes because productivity and activity seem to be equated.
 A lot of the time they're not, right? I mean, we have a lot of actions sometimes that doesn't produce fruit because it was, well, it wasn't well planned and there wasn't a lot of strategy and I mean we spend weeks with people and their teams who come into our office throughout the year doing the strategic planning for what will come before engaging.
 And we go through an analysis process and a planning process and so really that's what we want to get to today, but any final thoughts before we jump to the practical stuff about where people get stuck before we offer the remedy here.
 Yeah, I think so much of what is being taught to people like, you know, you've heard me say many times I hate this hustle culture.
 This concept that your whole life must now become a hustle, right? And this has been something that's been preached for probably, I don't know if it's been 10 years, but it's been quite a few years where this preaching of you got to go, you got to go, you got to get things done, you got to, if you're going to make anything happen, you got to make something happen.
 And the crazy thing behind that is that's okay for a short period of time.
 But what we find is in having done this for decades, what we find is people who take on that hustle mentality end up ruining relationships.
 They end up ruining marriages, they end up having kids that don't remember what their name is, right? I mean, it's it can have a really negative effect if done incorrectly and believe it or not, most of the time that I see it, it's done incorrectly.
 So I think we have to get past this concept of this, you got to go, go, go, go, go, go to get something done and start recognizing that the whole reason why that quote and, you know, I've taught that as Lincoln as well as eight hours and I'd spend six hours sharpening my acts.
 The whole concept behind that is is that if you go at that tree for eight hours with a doll axe, you're not going to get the tree down in eight hours.
 You're going to spend a whole lot of time or you're going to give yourself a heart attack in two hours, right?
 So with that understanding of if I just run without clear direction, without a clear path, without decent ideas of what I'm trying to accomplish and definitely a destination in mind, then I end up doing a whole lot of stuff that may amount to nothing.
 We see this, so we call this the shot going approach.
 And so I think when we come back from the break, I'd love to actually hit this from a personal standpoint of something I've noticed about myself in the last year.
 So yeah, it's it's crazy powerful.
 I can't wait to hear it. I love it when you're vulnerable and I don't have to be. That's my favorite part of the show.
 It's not Chris going, Brian, why don't you open up and talk about that for this is Chris is turned.
 I'm so excited. I'm going to find.
 I've got to find the popcorn here. Okay, up next, what does it look like to do the hard work of thinking before engaging that's after this?
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having a lack of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life, it all starts with having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with, whether it be at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to Chrissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your team to date.
 Get it for your family members today. As you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to Chrissacrittle.com/store 2 day.
 And welcome back folks.
 All right, we're ready to jump in. I've got my popcorn. Got everything set.
 I'm just on Pins and needles. I can't wait. Chris is going to be vulnerable.
 Okay, what can people do to really slow down and prepare well for better execution?
 Yeah, so the first thing you have to recognize is if you're like I say, so speaking to businesses, many times a business that has multiple team members, they're not going in a unified direction.
 This is one of the big things that we pull out in strap plan of helping people to see you are using your resources, your people, your money, your time, your equipment, your software, your brick and mortar building, your whatever.
 For people not to go in a unified direction, which means you're spending way more money. This last next level leadership live event. So many people are like,
 we thought your team was much bigger than this, right? I think we've got ten or so people on the team. And it's like, we thought this was so much bigger than this.
 Because of how much you guys get done and it's like, no, we literally do the things we teach you guys to do, right?
 If you're doing these things, then guess what? You don't have to pay two people to get one job done.
 It's the shotgun approach that causes you to spend so much of your resources because people aren't unified in moving in one direction.
 So that's the first thing you have to recognize is, is how much of your resource, time, money, energy, is going out to try and accomplish something.
 Second thing is, is why are you doing it, right?
 Now, if I'm somebody who is struggling with worth, then being productive is filling me with worth. It doesn't matter what I get done.
 If I get stuff done, if I am running 90 to nothing, if I feel like I'm banging things out and things are being accomplished, even though it may not be the most important thing to get accomplished,
 I feel really good about myself at the end of the day. I can go to bed and sleep because I have filled myself up with worth for the day.
 But after a period of time, I look around and I'm like, well, I got that thing done and that wasn't really that important and that is done and I'm not even going to do anything with that for, you know.
 So an example of that is is that, you know, we've got, we've been working on the ridge and I only get two days a week that I get to work on the ridge, one of those being the weekday and one a weekend day, that I get to do things and try and build this place up to move, you know, a lot of our business, a lot of things that we're doing events, all kinds of stuff out here.
 And it's funny and we have a full-time team member here who's just killing it, we've also got a part-time team member, we're looking for even more people who love the physical side of things and you know, the physical labor of stuff to come out here and do things.
 But when I started it, it was like, man, I would go after something and I just love being out here doing things. I love being out here dropping trees. I love being out here. Well,
 I would go knock a tree down and find out, oh, crud. That was a sugar maple. I should have kept that because I could actually get maple syrup out of that.
 I would go drop a tree that I couldn't cut up. Oh, crud.
 I actually need to mill that tree and now that's going to sit on the ground for too long and I'm not going.
 I would go work on a piece of the land and I'm like, oh, crud.
 I'm not going to be able to do anything with this and I just cleared this and now it's going to be overgrown in a couple of months because I'm not ready to take it.
 I've had these situations where I've enjoyed the process so much, but every bit of the business man inside of me had me stop and go, dude, what are you doing?
 Priorities, priorities, priorities, back up, reset. You're going out to things and you're having fun with it, but that's great.
 But I have fun going in a specific direction, get to the right destination, take a piece here, a piece here, a piece here, don't go drop a bunch of trees that you plan on milling if you can't actually get them milled.
 Don't go moving things around if it's going to cause things to just grow back up and now you have to go back and do that section for a second time.
 So I've had to actually recognize how getting out of the business and while this is still very much a part of the business or the future of the business, there's a physical fun aspect to it that I didn't immediately link and I had to, you know, with the very short period of time go stop.
 You got to get the priority because otherwise all you're going to do is be spinning your wheels around this whole place and nothing's ever really going to get done done because there's no direction.
 So a big piece that you have to do is recognize that just because you're accomplishing things doesn't mean that you're being the most productive and most effective as you possibly can.
 Then you recognize that if you just sit down and for us what we do is we tell people to try and close out your day for the next day.
 And then you're going to do that.
 What are the most important things I get done and are they pointing towards a destination? Are they leading toward a destination?
 If so, write those things down and prioritize them. This is the number one thing I go after first thing I do is go hit this thing right here.
 Second thing is this third thing is this even if you put time slots another you know a great thing to do is to put like, hey, I only give myself 45 minutes to do that one piece.
 Because if I give my if I don't put a time slot on it, then it might take me two hours to do something I could have gotten done in 45 minutes right.
 So by doing that all of a sudden what happens is is I'm getting the most important things knocked out and now I'm being incredibly productive now there's stats that are still very very true to this day that the person who doesn't plan out their day can lose up to two hours of productivity.
 True, we see it all the time. I saw it myself.
 And not only losing two hours of productivity by you know running back and forth and doing things that I was loving doing, but I was also missing out on the on getting to a destination faster.
 So not only was I losing the productivity in a day, but I wasn't pointing myself in the most high priority destination.
 Recognizing what's going on recognizing the power of scheduling if you stop and think now let me speak to the high sea out there or the high theoretical out there do not spend eight hours a day you know don't spend six hours planning on chopping down a tree and planning on sharpening your acts and then trying to do two hours of sharpening and chopping.
 Get this information down take a look at what needs to be done prioritize it go after it when you have enough.
 Do not try and make this a perfection process it never will be if you're feeling that it has to be perfect you're struggling with worth because now we've slipped into the I'm going to gain worth if I have this perfect or I'm going to try to avoid losing worth if it's not perfect.
 The perfection is an illusion we're never going to see it this side of heaven right so instead get it as far as you can as fast as you can make sure you have plenty of details then go knock it out get into yeah but what if something happens what if something happens what if it does fix it.
 Back to the drawing board change it do something about it right if you don't do something about it and by the way something is going to torpedo your day something's going to affect what you're trying to accomplish so when it does.
 Solve it then go back and go okay let me reset my day or let me fix I was doing this thing and it wasn't probably the best way let me spend 15 minutes on it I just and go again.
 If we spend too much time planning we never get anything done if we spend too much time doing we don't get the right things done.
 Yeah, that's crazy powerful and you know so much of what we talk about around here and we don't use a lot of the psychological language but we could call it.
 Self awareness mindfulness all these kinds of terms we have our own language for that here but really what we're saying and maybe maybe this is you today you know your takeaway is.
 Pause for a second before you do that next thing take a breath ask yourself is this the right thing and is this the right way to do it I remember my my dad growing up and he lives in South America now and he doesn't have access to technology so he won't hear this.
 But he used to tell me growing up he used to say just do something even if it's wrong you could see he's probably that high D as we're getting it from and and I probably was thinking too much in my seen this around him because you know that's how that dynamic worked and.
 I remember being provoked into that go go go without thinking anymore and I can still be guilty of that today and so I think you know for me it I'll just say like this the takeaway is pause.
 Before you do that next item you take that next action you execute that next task take a deep breath just think through it is this the right thing is this the right time is this the right way does there anything else I need it am I chopping down the maple tree because I need to chop down this particular tree.
 All of that so helpful Chris thank you for sharing all of that absolutely absolutely will folks hopefully this is out today hopefully you are enjoying these compact.
 I wish versions of these how to let us know we'd love to hear from you as always we hope this is help you take this information change your leadership change your business change your life go sharpen an axe and join us on the next episode.
 Thank you.