 Breaking free from self-defeating mindsets that are painting the wrong picture of your current reality and future possibilities that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal of Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today we are continuing to dig into some super practical topics in our many series of how two episodes with my air quotes that you can't see.
 Brian Alex is joining us on the show again. Brian, welcome back to the show.
 Always a pleasure to be here. I feel like I belong here.
 Yes.
 It's so funny. It's like you moved away. You were off the show for a while.
 It's good. Now we've had more episodes where we've had more time since you've been in Sicily to do some shows.
 It's great to have you back on. So this is how I get to see you.
 I mean, you should be. I get to see you every day.
 Now I get to see you through the farther away the more shows are on. So that's where I can imagine if I can't move in.
 What does it mean?
 Just keep moving.
 Yeah.
 Just keep moving.
 The absence of the grow funder.
 You miss me.
 You've already tried one of those shows of your own once.
 Well, Joel and I were practicing for our thought leaders podcast.
 Never really got it off the ground. It was a bit of a set tire show built around.
 You know, the air quoted thought leaders out there.
 Right.
 But yeah, we did in house parodies for guests, but that's about it.
 Still quite funny. Still quite funny.
 I could see that as being. What was it that?
 Orson Wells.
 What was the deal when people turn on the radio and like, you know, they're talking about the invasion from Mars or something like that.
 Yeah. I could see people listening to that show or thinking, yeah, or the world. I think that was it. Right.
 I could see people listening to that show going, wow. These guys really have changed the way they teach leadership.
 I wouldn't do that at all.
 This is almost 180 degrees from what Chris taught.
 I don't think that's right.
 But I'll do it. What the heck.
 So what was the one just start practicing it?
 Well, just start practicing it.
 So we are doing a how to today. Why don't you take that away and explain what we're doing?
 Yeah. So yeah. The idea today is talking about these negative thought patterns.
 And, you know, just just kind of the 30,000 foot view here before we dive into deep lots of people struggle with negative thought patterns.
 I mean, this is a well documented thing. There's many reasons for it.
 We're not going to get into all the stats and causes, but it's quite epidemic.
 With external wounds, just to kind of set up a bit of an example here, metaphoric external wounds.
 Take a paper cut, for example, the cause and the remedy can be pretty straightforward, right?
 I mean, but internal and we're talking mental emotional wounds.
 That's a lot more difficult to deal with.
 And so it's easy to find yourself trapped in a loop of destructive self-talk.
 We use our own terminology for things like this, the root system.
 We've talked about that a million times on here.
 And we've all been there. We've repeated, you know, these kinds of actions time and again,
 they become patterns. They're habitual. They're harmful. They're tough to shake.
 And so what we want to deal with today is how to approach these self-defeating patterns.
 Because they can, you know, you can feel like you're in a prison.
 You can feel blocked in and it can get quite hopeless.
 And before we get too far into it, just Chris, give us some perspective about what we deal with in next level life.
 About these kinds of harmful patterns.
 These negative self-talk patterns.
 Everybody, everybody, everybody experiences it.
 To some to a small level, some to a almost debilitating level, right?
 Everybody has some level of negative self-talk where they're speaking to themselves about something that they've done wrong
 or how bad they failed at something or how they're going to fail or they really screwed that thing up.
 And many times, you know, here's the thing, I have negative self-talk that's actually constructive sometimes.
 Like, there's times that I have in my brain, "Hey, dummy, that was really stupid.
 Why did you do that? You weren't thinking about that person. You were thinking about yourself, you know, whatever.
 Now, you know, calling yourself a dummy is not really that great.
 The point that I'm making is, is for me, it's more of a, hey, pay attention.
 What are you doing? Fix that? Go change that? Go do something about it.
 And praise God, that's a heck of a lot more now over the last, you know, decade or so than it was for the first four decades, right?
 Because of practicing the very tools that we teach, but oh my gosh,
 one thing that I've had my whole life is the, your failure. You've failed at that. You're not good enough. You're not worthy.
 This bad thing's probably going to happen.
 That person is probably thinking you're really stupid right now that whatever it is, right?
 So what we see over and over and over again is there's not a single person who doesn't have some level of negative self-talk.
 Some level. Even if they do a really good job of keeping it out of their minds, then that's fantastic.
 You'll still find something in there that tends to become more self-sabotaging than critically building up if that makes sense.
 Yeah, yeah, that's great. And I don't want to get to, to into the practical side here in the remedy side that's your job.
 I'm going to leave that for after the break, but I do want to just point to the fact that, you know, this comes back to a lot.
 And I remember, you know, being in the office and we would talk about the idea of feeling in control or out of control.
 How control is a bit of an illusion. And being okay with, you know, what you can control and what you can't is there's a lot of freedom there.
 And so we have a lot of leverage there. We can't control everything that goes on around us. All the events, the people, these are all external things.
 But we have power to choose how we perceive and that's really what we want to get in today.
 The problem is, is that our choice oftentimes is to see negative events negatively.
 We tend to assume the worst. And, you know, we have to be told and scripture that love believes the best.
 Why? Because we're programmed to believe the worst. We have to be told over and over, do not fear. Why?
 Our gut reaction is fear. Don't worry. We want to worry.
 We have to be told these things because it's our predisposition. You could call it part of the human condition or what have you.
 But I think there's some, there's a great leverage with the idea of choice and how we respond.
 But Chris, we need help because our choice usually is to see it negatively.
 And that's what we're going to get into. So up next, what does it look like to break free from constantly seeing through a negative lens?
 Freedom. It's so powerful. I don't rejuvenate and almost renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an out-sip judgment.
 So I was very comfortable there. That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it. It's going to be hard for us to be even better on the other side.
 For me, it was just very refreshing. And I want to say life, give me, and really was.
 You know, I would go to the next level of life again and probably again. And probably again, because it's so powerful.
 I want you to ask yourself a question, could you hear the sense of hope and freedom? And their voice is just that.
 I want you to know that could be you. Look, it's easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns and unhealthy relationships.
 It's going to take some work, but yes, there is hope for you. If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation,
 this same kind of self-worthiness and freedom that they have, or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like for you, then head on over to
 ChrisLicardo.com/nextlevellife.
 [Music]
 Alright, and we're back guys. Here we go, Chris. We're going to dive right into the deep end.
 No dipping the toe in the water to see the temperature we're going to dive in. What can we do to stop seeing through a negative lens?
 Yeah.
 First thing we have to do, there's so many different pieces and they're all tools that if you practice them, they will help you.
 Now, does it mean that you're not going to see something through a negative lens? It doesn't necessarily mean that.
 The first thing you have to do, and for me, I have to shock myself. So you heard me say on the front part of the show, you know, like, "Hey, dummy, there's some things that I will have to say that shocks my brain,
 because otherwise that tape just runs and it runs and it runs and it runs and I can keep thinking the negative thinking thinking thinking,
 "Because I'm operating in my emotional side." Right? So for me to switch over from the emotional side to the logic side, sometimes I have to go knock it off.
 You know, sometimes if it's really bad, stop it. Shut up.
 And what that does is, is it shocks your brain and the emotional, and allows you to switch over, but you have to immediately start attacking with, "Why am I doing this?
 What am I experiencing? What am I thinking?" Right? So we're never really going to solve problems on our negative self-talk if we stay in the emotional side. Why?
 Because we're going to become victims. We're going to see those negative things and just go, "This is my life. Things are terrible. It always sucks."
 Well, if you want to see the negative as a positive or see through the negative as a teaching tool or learn from the failure or/or, you're not going to get there on the emotional side.
 You got to get out of the emotional side and our brain operates that way. Right? We have emotional side. We have logic side.
 So in sometimes what you can do is just take your tongue and press it against the root of your mouth as hard as you possibly can, and sometimes you can switch on over.
 Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't, but for me it's usually I have to tell myself in my brain, "Nuck it off. What are you doing? Why are you here? Why are you saying this? Why are you thinking that? What are you doing?"
 And I will start to just pound hard because I want myself to get to that place of going, "This is the situation." The great thing is, there are so many types that I'm able to go, "Well, that's your fault, man."
 That's your responsibility. You know, in start walking my way back out as if I'm coaching myself. Right? So it's the same thing as if if I am, if Brian Alex is going through next level of life and you're struggling with something, you know, obviously.
 I'm going to lead you in your personality style where you are at the time. If you're in high-s mode, then I'm going to be much more gentle. It's going to be a longer conversation.
 If you're in high-demode, "Hey dude, what are you doing?" Right? If you're in high-s mode, "Hey, let's get to that process."
 You know, season D's in that task mode, you can push them a little bit harder, "S is an eyes, you don't have to." You can be a little bit softer, a little bit more gentle.
 But sometimes a CRD needs that snap, right? Get out of that task mode or that emotional mode and get into actually more of a task mode,
 and then you're going to be a project-side to think through what am I experiencing. So first thing you have to do is recognize that it's existing. The negative cell talk is happening.
 Do something to shut it down. Now, this is one of the toughest things that we teach because people don't practice it. And we say, "Over and over and over again, you don't have this."
 After listening to this episode, you're not an expert at this. Do this for the next year, you will become an expert at it. Right?
 But if you walk along thinking that you're doing it and you're actually not, I've literally been in conversations with people that are like,
 "What are you experiencing?" I'm battling right now, and I'm like, "Well, what are you saying?" And I'm battling.
 And you know, I'm battling the lies. Well, what are you saying? Well, I'm in a battle. What are you saying? And they will go, "Oh my gosh, I'm not actually saying anything. I'm not battling back.
 I'm like, then you're not in a battle. You're getting pummeled. You're allowing that negative cell talk to just beat the daylight's out of you. You've got to overpower that with your own words."
 So, recognize, this is where I am, dig in, find out what's going on. If something is truly happening to you that you are, you know, somebody's being controlling,
 manipulative, somebody's having an effect on you in a negative way, and you aren't able to be healthy in that situation, healthy boundaries must go in place.
 Right? For me, praise God, I'm at a different place where a lot of times I can watch somebody being very controlling, manipulative, unhealthy toxic.
 And I start walking myself through, is this affecting me? What do I need to do? Do I even need to do anything here? Do I need to push back? Do I need any healthy boundary set?
 And a lot of times I don't. I can look at the person and go saying something is not going to do anything right now. It's not going to help this person.
 They are so in victim mentality. They are so controlling. They're so whatever that if I push back, all it's going to do is elevate that, right?
 There are sometimes I'll even recognize that even trying to help that person is only going to elevate, no matter how gentle I can be, no matter the right questions I can ask, all it's going to do is elevate their lack of control or their victim mentality.
 I'll even talk myself through that, don't do it. So if I can recognize what's going on, not handcuff myself emotionally to it, think logically, get over to the logic side, then I can start walking through what's going on.
 So now let's look at it again, and I'm giving so much information. Stop me if any of this is confusing jump in.
 But let's talk to the side of what it's just negative about me. When negative things happen, we are in a society now that if you stub your toe, you're a victim to the world.
 You need the government to come and save you. Everybody needs to circle around you on Facebook and tell you how victimized you've been by the concrete, the concrete, stub your toe.
 Living in victim mentality, it is insane how people are living in anything possibly negative is happening to you.
 Right? If I stop my toe, I stop my toe. Get over it. Right? What do I learn from it? Well, don't walk around like that, right?
 Change the way you're doing the thing that you're doing, whatever it is. So if I recognize if I will get in my head well before I end up in a victim mentality situation, a negative situation, a negative self talk, a self sabotaging situation, if I will recognize now right now, hey, not everything is that's bad is bad.
 So, you know, at our next level leadership live event, this past event, we talked through what does it mean to be able to allow failure to be a teacher? How can you take fears and allow those to teach you? How can you learn from these aspects and be able to implement processes so that instead of looking at everything so negatively, you can look at that and go, oh, well, what did I learn from that?
 Well, when you look at next level leadership live event, the whole event, this whole business, the stuff that we do is literally based around a life of me failing at stuff and screwing things up and making mistakes and hurting people and doing stupid.
 But learning to go, that does not define me. As Zig said, failure is an instant. It's a situation, it's not a person, of course, I just jacked up with Zig said, but it's very close to that.
 You know, it's not, I'm not a failure. I have failed 14 billion times. I'm going to continue to fail through life. The question is, if I'm going to allow that to affect me negatively, how am I ever going to grow? How am I ever going to get better?
 So for me, I don't look at those negative situations and go, I'm a failure. Now I did for most of my life, you know, for the first half of my life for sure.
 Look at me, I'm a terrible person, and that also was coupled with people who would take their, you know, I would surround myself with specific people who when they were out of control, they would point to me is being, you know, some reason why they were hurting or struggling in life.
 It still happens to this day. I still have people in my life that, you know, if they're struggling or feeling out of control, the first thing they're doing is how can I make Chris feel bad about himself because I can feel better about myself, right?
 I've even had to take those situations and go, how do I grow from this because I chose to recognize early on, not all bad things are not all failures bad.
 That's allowed me to not only overcome and practice the tools that we use, but to teach other people, to help other people to walk through it, to help other people grow through it.
 So I don't know if that answers the question that you're asking or what we're trying to solve here as much, but for me, I have to recognize, I have to look at the situation and go, this is okay.
 It's alright for me to have failed at this. What did I learn from it? And then the other thing is, as I'd say, you know, it's not to be very cautious of who you surround yourself with, you know, who you a lot of influence you.
 If you have people that are consistently negative and it's affecting you, where you find yourself being negative, change that, right? Do something about it. Don't spend as much time.
 And at our times, I have people I love in my life that when something goes wrong, the immediate response is, oh, great.
 And I, right there, going, oh, great, what? Why is that so bad? Why is that such a problem? Why are you viewing this so negatively?
 Where's the opportunities? How can we fix the situation? What are our opportunities? What are other options do we have? What can we do about, you know, this current situation?
 Instead of always looking at the situation as a negative. Oh my gosh, this thing just broke. Oh, while it broke. What do we do now?
 It's so funny. We had a time up here at the ridge where one day it was just there's always a thousand little frustrations, you know, in any random day.
 Like you can start a day off. It's like, oh, there's a frustration. Oh, there's a little, and they're just little ones. It's not it's nothing that is just like, oh my gosh, this just ruined my day, right?
 And we had a day where I'm having a bunch of frustrations, how there's having a bunch of frustrations and something happened and it was what they faucet somewhere.
 And I'm like, I knew as I began to, I think we're fixing a shower head or something on something. I can't remember.
 But I remember I'm like, I touched it and it popped off and the water was on and I'm like in two seconds, I'm getting sprayed down.
 It's coming. I know that it's going to happen and ensure enough bam. I just get hit and I just went after it. I just start laughing.
 I started laughing. I picked the thing up. I shut it off and I'm just laughing.
 And Heather comes and she's like, what's going on? And I'm like, well, I just soaked myself. It's just like, why are you laughing? I'm like, I got a laugh. What are my options? I can be mad. I can be frustrated.
 But not only am I now wet, I knew it was going to happen because I could see what's going to happen. And it just added to the bunch of little frustrations.
 If I allow that frustration to continue, then it just ruins my day. It becomes more negativity. And then here's what people do.
 So many negative things are currently happening. What's going on? What's happening? Why are all of these negative things happening? What's going on?
 Am I doing something bad to myself? Am I hurting myself? Or whatever? Then you start carrying that negativity over into fear of something else.
 It's going to happen. Something big is going to happen. So this is all of that makes sense. Yeah, there's so many great things in there. I feel like we just we this is a compact.
 Many series these are compact episodes. This is the red bull.
 This was a red bull dose of. But no, there's so many powerful things here. There's so much objectivity to be gained choice.
 Being careful how we judge or label situations that we're in because if we want to sustain maintain that objectivity, we can't just run to label it terrible bad.
 And then, you know, we've talked about it so many times before that so many of our, you know, the things that we suffer are imagined. And if we'll walk ourselves through like you're talking about and gain perspective gain the objectivity, you know, when I do that for me, I'd say more than half the time.
 Nobody else is fault. And I'm quick to assign that blame and you know, make it someone else so that I can be the victim so that somebody else has to deal with it and not me.
 But when I look at it objectively, I realize, oh, I just have been involved in my own head, my own imagination.
 And I've been labeling things and I've created a world of suffering.
 Exactly. It doesn't exist. And that's not to say that there's not real pain and real suffering out there. But I think so much of the time, especially in modern culture, we do this to ourselves.
 So there are some powerful keys here to escape that and find freedom. I love it. Thank you.
 I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that. I love that
 And I think that's a very important thing. And I think that's a very important thing.
 And I think that's a very important thing.
 And I think that's a very important thing.
 And I think that's a very important thing.
 And I think that's a very important thing.
 And I think that's a very important thing.
 And I think that's a very important thing.
 Hopefully this has helped you today.
 We want you to take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]