 Giving good will and un-earned favor to those who we lead.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life,
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show. Folks,
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today, we are continuing to dive into some of our core values in business,
 and I want to get into something that we haven't dealt with in a long time, and that is Grace.
 Now, maybe you're thinking of the National Ampun's Christmas vacation,
 but we're not talking about a person's name, we're not talking about saying a prayer before
 meal or even having a certain smooth elegance.
 We're talking about courteous, goodwill, extended to others,
 especially when they don't deserve it.
 Now, we dealt with this topic about 300 episodes ago,
 and you can go back and listen to episode 165, leading with Grace,
 but today I want to focus on the effect that has on leaders and teams.
 So, when we come back, Grace, why we all need it, and can't get enough of it,
 and what happens when we don't offer to others.
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here.
 I'm the Vice President of Leadership Development on Crisis Team,
 and I oversee our next-level mastermind business coaching program.
 Most business owners and leaders lack a clear path to succeed in business.
 They question whether they're making the right decisions,
 if they're focusing on the right things, to really grow their business.
 If this is you, you need a coach in your life.
 Coaches help you make better decisions, navigate uncertainty,
 lead more effectively, and grow your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue,
 and an average of 138% increase in net profit, and regain hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3.5 years, simply because of the results they get.
 So, if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting,
 then visit crissacurdo.com/mastermind.
 Again, crissacurdo.com/mastermind today.
 So, there's no doubt that we all need grace, but that doesn't mean
 that we're ever going to give it.
 Right? So, how many times have you ever needed grace? How many times have you ever
 screwed something up? How many times have you ever done something that you didn't intend to do?
 How many times have you failed at something that affected other people?
 And what you really needed was grace. Yep, I've got my hand up
 because it's been about 10,000 times. So, grace is in this business.
 God is our number one core value. Grace is number two. Giving grace.
 And what I tell people is I have been given so much grace that I must give it to others.
 That is one of our core values. Now, when was the last time you were in a sticky situation?
 And maybe it was your fault or maybe not, but somebody builds you out.
 Hey, don't worry about that. You know, that kind of thing. We'll sort all this out.
 We all need that level of grace. I am not advocating screwing things up on a consistent basis.
 But what do you learn about this show and my leadership and what we do here?
 Failure is an option.
 This ridiculous concept that failure is not an option coming from supposed to thought leaders is just, I'm sorry,
 lame. Failure is inevitable. Failure is going to happen.
 Unless you're doing absolutely nothing. So what we teach you all the time is learn from your failures.
 But guess what? Sometimes your failures are going to affect other people and what we need is
 that human need some grace. So here's a key thought. Grace reinforces respect and value to your
 team members instead of reducing them to mere employees or numbers with a time card to stamp.
 Think about that. If you only treat your people as a number, if you do not give grace,
 if you do not help them, then think about this. You already know that you've been given grace
 10 billion times in your life. What does it like for you to have received grace but not give grace?
 If you are not somebody who can be graceful to your team, if you're not somebody who can extend
 grace to your team members. And again, you're not hearing me say, allow team members to just
 make colossal mistakes over and over again. You can make a mistake here. But what do we say?
 Don't worry about making a mistake. Don't worry about failing. Just don't keep failing in the same
 area. Don't fail in the same area. It's twice. If you fail in the same area, it's twice. What does that say?
 There's something you haven't learned yet. So I am not advocating that it's okay for people to
 continuously make the same mistakes. That would be horrible accountability. But in the process,
 if you're moving anything around, somebody's going to fail at something. If you do not have
 some modicum of grace, then what are they going to receive? That you don't care about treating them with
 dignity and that they are just a number two. Point number two, giving grace empowers us as the leader.
 Doesn't matter if you're a leader or a team member, whoever you are, when you give grace, believe it or not,
 it empowers you. So how does choosing to be graceful towards others help you? Well, just for a moment,
 let's think about the opposite of grace. Things like resentment, fear, bitterness, anger, defensiveness,
 giving grace to others is part of letting those negative things flow through and out of us.
 Not allowing them to find root in us. So in the end, believe it or not, it's purifying and empowering.
 What happens whenever you have somebody screw something up? I own multiple businesses. I've led people for
 decades. Do you know how many times people have failed? Oh my gosh, it's a large number. Do you know
 how many times I have failed? I have a business that is built on me screwing up things and just learning how to
 fix them and then teach people how not to screw it up. What to do if they do? I've screwed up
 so many things that I have a business that helps people to overcome screw ups. Failures. Do things right. Do things
 correct. Right? So if I hadn't screwed up a ton in my past, how could I possibly teach you?
 But here's what happens many times. Somebody screws up and instead of us having grace,
 we resent them. We have bitterness. We have anger. Maybe word defensive. Maybe they're defensive.
 Maybe fear enters into the situation. I think as I say this, we all understand that. So
 when we have grace, what happens to resentment fear bitterness, anger, defensiveness?
 It diminishes considerably. Now may not all go away in the first 10 minutes, but it will
 go away. So keep thought as this. It's not a weakness to be merciful and kind. In fact,
 it's a key purpose of power, of position, of strength, of authority. It's part of God's
 original intention for leadership. So think about how much God has had grace and mercy for you.
 Now for me, I go by the old saying, grace is not giving you something that you deserve.
 Mercy is giving you something that you don't deserve. So I focus on those things when it comes to
 my God and recognize I am the one who screwed up so many times and he has been so graceful to me.
 So and so merciful to me as well. So so much of the time when we're not prioritizing grace,
 we're allowing ourselves to be motivated by what's the word you probably have in your mind,
 frustration or feeling out of control or fear, right? Whatever it is, and that's not helping
 to create great decision making. Because if we're frustrated, if we're feeling out of control,
 if we're fearful, if we're resentful, if we're angry, then how do we base our decision making
 on the very things that we're experiencing in the moment, on the very things that we're feeling.
 So the next time you want to just react from the God, pause and reflect, sit down with your team
 and invest to get a little bit, ask questions, what's going on, how can I help you, what are you
 experiencing, what happened, you know, for us, we go through a five-step process with failure, what happened,
 how did it happen, why did it happen, how do we fix it, how do we make sure it never happens again?
 Does it, we do it, then there's no ripping somebody's head off, you teach, you got, you
 direct, if they keep making the same mistakes, that's when we have tough conversations, right?
 So cannot be frustrated that there's failures that happen, oh my gosh, absolutely.
 But how I handle it is how it changes me and the team member.
 If I go with grace, then I can do things like asking questions about what happened, how did it happen,
 why did it happen, all those different pieces, I can seek to understand first and not to be understood
 first, I can gain perspective and then help make a plan. I can do all of those things,
 but if I'm frustrated, if I'm angry, if I'm better, then I guarantee you, those are going to play a
 part in my decision making, one of the things that I will tell people is, if you were going into a
 situation with a team member, I never forget I had a team member who screwed up a couple of contracts,
 and you contracts with different places, she was doing them at the same time and she screwed up a
 couple of things and it cost me a lot of money. I found out about it on a Friday, I did not like a
 Friday morning, did not talk to her until Monday. Why? Because I had just lost a lot of money.
 And I knew that if I went into a discussion with it right then, I might get a little angry
 because the number was large. We were going to talk about small pennies here. It was a lot of
 money. Tens of thousands of dollars. And so I just told myself there's no way you're going to talk to her today.
 You'll wait, you'll go through the weekend and I have people say, you carried that through the weekend.
 It's a heck of a lot better me carrying that than me carrying the resentment of having talked badly
 to her or saying something bad. So when we come back, what giving grace to your team members does for them.
 Hey leaders, this is Joel Fortner, VP, Leadership Development, Acrystall Cardo's company. I have some questions for you.
 Do you as a leader feel like you are caught up in a crazy cycle of stress and task that never ends
 week to week? Do you ever have to deal with tough conversations with team members and you sit at home the next day,
 the night before worry about how's it going to go? What am I going to say? What are they going to say? Can I think fast enough on my
 feet? Is it going to be a total failure? Are you experiencing culture problems or
 stuff that just breaks down trust and unity on your team? Well, if you can relate to any of this,
 this is a pretty typical leadership story in situation. Here's the thing though, it doesn't have to be that way.
 And we can help you solve these things. We can help you become the leader that solves these problems and leads 13 to greater success.
 I want to introduce you to the key leaders program. This is an ongoing leadership development program
 that gives you the less-entract coaching and accountability you need to become the leader you can become
 to actually implement what you're actually learning in this program. Things fall apart without great leadership and
 intentionality. If you want to solve the problems that are holding you back from being a great leader, we can help you with this program,
 get in touch with Joel. Chris McCurdo.com. Okay, point number three, giving grace and powers others.
 A lot of times we don't know what's going on in a team members personal life until he or she decides to share
 that information with us. But there's always things going on. So I'm not saying that you need to dig
 deep into somebody's personal life. I'm not saying that at all. You might want to be very cautious there.
 But here's what I can tell you. If you're able to have the conversation great, if you have that type of
 relationship great, but if you don't recognize that there are things going on in that person's life,
 then you're looking at that person and assuming that everything is fantastic. Everything is
 glorious. There's no problems. There's no issues. They're not dealing with problems with parents or family
 members or friends or relatives or spouses or kids or paying their rent on time or car problems or
 whatever. If you do not recognize that somebody may be struggling with something,
 then how likely are you to have grace? Again, you don't have to get in and know everything. And I know
 you're thinking of that one team member who probably can't seem to get their stuff together. I've had those in the past.
 I can go back all the way back to my leadership days at E-Trad and think of somebody that
 on a daily basis that person just couldn't get their stuff together and I felt for them.
 Here's the funny thing. Clot off. And when you see that person is struggling, then a lot of times
 are not going to reveal it. You try to talk, you try to help, and it's a lot of denial. Why?
 Guilt, shame, fear. So if that's not something you can recognize, then maybe take a look at you
 in times you've had those. I can look back on my history of leading people and see what, you know,
 times when people have just struggled immensely and then looking my own life and go, yep,
 I had some problems like that too. Yep, I struggled with that too. Yep, that held me back as well. So
 start recognizing what's going on from the perspective that you can see because a lot of times
 they seem to have things going on in their lives outside of their control. You know what I'm talking
 about? They can't get to work on time. They can't get that one project on. They can't find a sitter
 for the kids. There's always some emergency to tend to. They constantly are distracted or distracting others,
 right? These things can jeopardize a team member's success at work, but it could also jeopardize
 a team's success at work, but helping them to be a successful human is foundational to leadership,
 leader, think about that. You're not just a leader to just get somebody to do a task,
 right? Your job is to make them successful. How much is it your job to try and help them? You can't
 make people successful human beings. Don't read that into that. That's not what I'm saying,
 but you can't help them to make better decisions. Some people just need a little help.
 Some people just need a graceful leader to step in. Somebody might need to see that you care more about
 them than the thing that you're asking them to do. I know there's a whole lot of entrepreneurs that just
 heard me say that and go, "Oh, come on! Can't they just do what I'm paying them for?" Yeah,
 yeah they can. But here's what I'm asking you. At the end of the day what's more important.
 Your bottom line are the people that God put in your business. Right? The people that God put on your
 team. Yeah, I'm going to say it's the people. How do I know that? Because God says it's the people.
 So that's what I'm going to focus on. Grace is the way forward right here. It empowers them to
 get a handle on their situation. Now, how is that? Grace, how is me giving grace? Can I help them?
 Well, if they feel respected as a human being, if they feel like you're treating them with dignity,
 then it can allow them to drop that guard. It can allow them to be vulnerable and it can allow them to actually
 speak about some of this stuff. Maybe ask for some help and talk to somebody. When a person doesn't
 feel like they're being treated with dignity, then what happens? Guards up, walls up, not going to
 admit to anything, not going to take responsibility. I'm going to be a victim in this situation. So Grace
 helps them to feel respected. It also helps them to be more honest with you. A lot of times,
 if somebody can see that you care about them deeply as a human, they might be able to share some of
 the things that they're experiencing. Why is that important? Because you just might be able to help
 them through it. There have been times when somebody has explained to me a situation that they're going through
 and because I had not only grace, but empathy, I was able to rectify the situation a little bit
 from my vantage point. Maybe it's helping out by blessing them with money. Maybe it's helping out by
 blessing them with time. Maybe it's helping out by supporting their day-to-day tasks by pulling
 some of the more important things off. Whatever it is, maybe it's just being that listening ear.
 But if you have grace and they can see that, that a lot of times they can be more honest with you,
 which can allow you to be a better hope. If you have grace, this may be the very thing
 that causes them to want to change. If they can see that you care, how many people on your team
 don't have graceful people in their lives. How many people on your team experience people who don't have
 grace. But instead experience controlling people. Listen, there are people who are drawn to
 controlling people. I can tell you as a former people pleaser in my life, I actually just got to
 point where I believed that I was supposed to be a surrounded by controlling people. Praise God,
 God helped me on that one. Because it allowed me to put healthy boundaries in place. Well,
 what if you have a young Chris on your team who believes that he's supposed to be treated like crap
 and has controlling people around him and doesn't have healthy people? Well, if they experience
 you as being healthy and graceful, it might be the very thing that helps them to desire change.
 So, shepherd leader, servant leader, you need to be a healthier leader so that you can have
 healthier teams. If you will shepherd, if you will guide, if you will serve, if you'll direct,
 if you will be healthy, which includes you not going out the deep end, you not being angry,
 you not buying people's heads off, you not holding onto a bunch of bitterness and resentment.
 If you are able to be graceful, if you're able to give a lot of grace, then you can be the shepherd
 leader, the servant leader, that your team needs. That will help not only you become healthier,
 but it will definitely help your team to become healthier. Well, folks, that's all the time we have
 for today. I hope this has helped you out to become a stronger, better leader, a stronger, better person,
 a more loving, more graceful, more merciful person. As always, we want you to take this information
 change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]