 What happens when leaders dare to take time off, unplug and rest?
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life,
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day, wherever you are.
 I hope you're not stressed out.
 I hope you feel somewhat rested today's show.
 We're going to be talking about you.
 We're going to be talking about what is it like to actually take time off.
 Now, if you're the kind of leader who is always plugged in,
 I remember there was a time in my early years that if I won on vacation,
 if I won on a week-long vacation, it took me three or four days to stop being plugged in,
 which left me with just a couple of days left on my vacation when I finally actually got,
 you know, where I wasn't plugged in.
 If you're the kind of leader who can't let go, if you're the kind of leader who can't delegate,
 if you're the kind of leader who can't find the off button.
 Now, when I say the off button, some of you might go,
 "Oh, I know exactly where that is.
 Do you really? How many times do you spend night time emailing yourself, messaging yourself,
 messaging other people, working through problems in your brain?"
 If that's happening, then guess what you're struggling with that off-bud.
 Have you ever been in any of those places that I just mentioned?
 Now, we all have.
 Here we are in the middle of June.
 And if you're like most leaders, you are still at the office with no vacation planned,
 or no vacation's on the horizon.
 Most leaders don't feel like they can, like they deserve,
 or that they can even afford to take time off.
 There's all kinds of reasons like, "Man, there's just too much work.
 I get it. There's a lot to be done.
 I get it. I understand that. A lot of leaders think I'm too important to leave."
 Right? I'm such a vado part of my business, of course you are.
 I get it. Or there's many leaders that just have two little confidence in their team.
 Again, I understand all of these.
 Here's a deal though. You must take a break before you break.
 Let me say that again. You must take a break before you break.
 And before you take a break before you break, we're going to take a break.
 So we're going to cut that right after this.
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here. I'm the vice president of leadership development on Chris's team.
 And I oversee our next level of mastermind business coaching program.
 Most business owners and leaders lack a clear path to succeed in business.
 They question whether they're making the right decisions,
 if they're focusing on the right things to really grow their business.
 If this is you, you need a coach in your life.
 Coach is helping make better decisions, navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively,
 and grow your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue
 and an average of 138% increase in net profit and regain hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3 1/2 years simply because of the results they get.
 So if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting,
 then visit ChrisCarto.com/mastermind.
 Again, ChrisCarto.com/mastermind today.
 So if you're somebody who's not taking a break,
 if you're somebody who's not the touching, if somebody who's not zooming out,
 if you're not somebody who's seeing the forest, you know, etc.
 Then guess what that's going to result in,
 it's going to result in you being a leader who is overburdened,
 who has too much on your shoulders.
 I think probably everybody who's listening to this are at least a great portion of the people who are listening to this right now,
 can understand that, can actually relate with that of feeling overburdened or feeling overwhelmed,
 like there's so much stuff on your shoulders and folks, I'm telling you,
 I teach this stuff for a living and if I'm not careful, I can end up there.
 We've got a ton going on in our lives right now.
 The great thing is I don't feel overburdened.
 Why do I not feel overburdened?
 Because we have specific things in place that help us not to get overburdened.
 So you can feel overburdened, you can feel burnt out.
 Too much time spent in the trenches will cause you to feel burnt out.
 I actually have worked with some amazing leaders with amazing businesses that because they spent so much time in the trenches,
 they got to a place where they didn't want to do the business anymore.
 And the crazy thing is when we just got them to spend some time away from it,
 they came back refueled, regenerated, ready to go, ready to bust it, right?
 How crazy is it that if you do not take enough time away,
 you might find yourself feeling burnt out on something that, for at least a decent amount of time, you loved.
 You felt good about, you enjoyed doing.
 Many folks can, many leaders can feel trapped.
 They can get ton of vision in a kind of a sense of never getting ahead.
 They can feel distracted that there's too much going on to pay attention to everything.
 They can feel dysfunctional.
 That there's so much stimulus going on.
 There's so much happening without rest that it actually produces dysfunction.
 Forbes had an article on mental health, leaders on specifically on leaders mental health.
 And here's one of the quotes that they said when people feel stress, anxiety or depression,
 they release brain chemicals like cortisol and adrenal corticotopin, which exacerbate malaise,
 which think of that as increased restlessness when they are chronic.
 At the same time, blood flow is reduced to the frontal lobes,
 causing people to have fewer ideas and to struggle with decision-making as well as logical analysis.
 Folks think about this for a one second, just one second.
 How many times have you been stressed out?
 Have you been stuck?
 Have you been feeling dysfunctional?
 Have you been feeling overwhelmed?
 When you couldn't come up with an idea, you know those times when you're trying to explain something to somebody.
 And it's been a stressful week and you're like, "I can't even get my brain to function correctly.
 I can't get my brain to work right."
 How many times have you ever experienced that?
 Well, there could be a really good reason, and that's not taking the time to rest.
 Leaders must protect themselves from this kind of stress and learn to combat it effectively.
 So we're going to go through three different areas.
 The first area is leaders get a fresh sense of clarity and focus.
 So you must take your focus off of the business routinely in order to see the business clearly.
 Now, one great thing that my wife and I do, we actually honor Sabbath.
 We actually do not.
 Well, let me not lie here.
 We work our butts off to not work.
 We will take a full 24 hour period Friday night through Saturday night.
 And where we do not focus on work.
 Now, I'm saying we do not.
 Let me be honest with you.
 We actually have to catch each other and hold each other accountable because one of us or both of us have a really good chance of actually working on work without working on work.
 And we can get what I'm saying. Sometimes we'll even just be creative in the process.
 And it sucks us right back into focusing on work.
 We've got technically five businesses now that we're focusing on.
 And so it makes it where it's not difficult for us to be sitting there in our brain gets pumping because we're not focusing on the things that we need to, which is the rest.
 And time will go on and time with each other and all these good beneficial things.
 And we can find ourselves getting sucked back into spending time looking at creative being creative or focusing on work.
 When we do not do that, which is a good portion of the time.
 When we do not do that, it is incredible.
 I cannot say this enough.
 It is incredible how rested we feel.
 It is incredible that when we get done with that time period, how ready we are to face the next week, how ready we are to go ballistic to make things happen.
 It's amazing to me.
 Not only physically, there's definitely the physical benefits of not working, resting, spending time with God.
 But there is spending time with family, but there is a spiritual blessing that comes with it as well.
 Our spirits feel refreshed.
 We feel incredible.
 So you have to take time to step back.
 And by the way, where people who have a really good understanding of why God put that in place, that we're supposed to actually stop and rest and focus because of the outcome.
 Because of what it does for us.
 It teaches us and shows us that our productivity is not our greatest worth.
 Remember, business is what you do, not who you are, there's so much more to you.
 So leaders need to take a step back from the day to day.
 You've got to spend time not focusing on the day to day.
 You have to take a breath of fresh air and clear your mind.
 Sometimes I have to just walk outside and go for walk.
 Sometimes I have to go put myself in a place where I'm not thinking about work.
 We are, you know, we've got a lot going on at the ridge.
 We're trying to prepare this to be a place where we move the business.
 We bring events.
 We do all kinds of stuff up here.
 And there are times that I completely disconnect from my phone, from email, from computers, from people.
 And just spend time not working on those things.
 And it is amazing to me.
 Yet do I come back to a phone that has some texts on it, some emails and stuff like that?
 Of course I do.
 But because I've put other things in place, it's not overwhelming.
 And the great thing is nothing was an emergency.
 Because we have a phenomenal team who's busting it and doing a great job.
 I don't have emergencies waiting for me.
 Instead, I get to spend time clearing my head thinking,
 "Process or not even thinking."
 Sometimes I just like to crank some music up, jump on the skid steer or mini excavator and go,
 knock some trees down or do something.
 Sometimes you have to stop and take a breath of fresh air and clear your mind.
 You have to take a moment to separate yourself from the grind.
 Now, you've heard me say this, I believe it will.
 It depends.
 We've got a lot of new listeners.
 Let me just say this.
 Do not agree with the hustle concept.
 I'm not somebody who believes that you need to go fill up 20 hours of your 24 hour day hustling.
 I don't think there's anything that's that important that you need to go run yourself
 rag it into the ground.
 Now, let me say this.
 There are plenty of times that we have to bust it.
 There's plenty of times that we, if the oxes in the ditch, we go get the ox out of the ditch.
 There's plenty of times we work hard.
 There's plenty of times we get things done.
 There's plenty of times we have to put in a lot of hours to get things done.
 The difference is the hustle, the grind that is taking your almost every waking hour
 and plugging some level of work into it.
 It's causing you to go ballistic for the name of what money come on.
 Success, fame, come on.
 Think about it.
 How many people do you know that go ballistic running themselves into the ground,
 that go, man, it was worth every penny.
 It was worth every second.
 It was worth every bit of my energy.
 You just don't, right?
 Unless there's somebody who's selling the idea of it,
 making lots of money off of it, right?
 What you have to understand is, if you don't separate yourself from the grind,
 you're separating yourself from other things.
 The old saying is so incredibly true.
 Every time you say yes to something you're saying, notice something else.
 How much of that is your family?
 More importantly, yes, there's something more important than your family.
 How much of that is separating yourself from God?
 Go read Ephesians 4 5 and 6.
 Find out how God lays out the importance of relationships.
 I'll just tell you, he's the number one.
 He should be your number one focus over everything else.
 The number two most important relationship, listen to me, parents.
 Listen to me.
 Your spouse, not your kids.
 Your spouse needs to be the number two most important relationship that you have.
 Not your kids.
 There's a whole lot of disgustingness going on out there where people are putting their kids
 over their spouse.
 And that's just that's hard.
 That's not the way God wants it.
 And let me tell you when those kids leave, you're going to find out how much of them
 a mistake that was.
 The number three most important relationship is your kids.
 They do come next.
 Number four, and again, if you understand scripture,
 is that work relationship for the business owners,
 that your team members, for the team members, it's your leader, it's your business owner.
 Listen, the person who puts foot on your table should be a very important relationship for you.
 And vice versa, right?
 So if you ever want to show somebody that they don't matter to you,
 show them that somebody else is in their, we call them relationships circles,
 in the circle ahead of them.
 Guess where we usually put God about seven circles outside,
 even though we say we don't.
 If you don't spend time separating yourself from the grind,
 what you will find is you separate yourself from the more important things in life.
 True focus comes from gaining perspective, fresh perspective from a healthy distance.
 Number two, leaders get a fresh dose of inspiration
 and ideation.
 You cannot cannot, cannot, ideate well when you're closed off within your own four walls.
 When you're in this high castle, when you're in this place where it's just you running like crazy,
 making things happen, getting things done or believing that you're getting things done,
 because you're going crazy trying to create or move things around,
 you can't ideate well.
 I know there are some folks that say, oh my gosh, the high pressure causes me to come up with some of the best ideas.
 For a period of time, I'll agree with you.
 Keep going and see what happens.
 Keep doing it and see what happens.
 I don't know anybody who staying under long-term pressure continues to have phenomenal ideation.
 Nobody.
 What I see is, again, burnout.
 What I see is, again, dysfunction.
 So you have to get out into the real world where things are actually happening,
 not staying stuck in your one little space.
 Entrepreneurs or some of the biggest failures at this.
 I know so many entrepreneurs that come through,
 strap, plan, or come through our next level mastermind group,
 that just really don't care to be around people.
 They love work.
 They want to just keep working and they don't realize that they actually
 need to be around people.
 Yes, yes, yes entrepreneurs, especially you high-dees.
 Let me say that again, high-sees.
 You actually need to be around people.
 I see some people.
 I see some people.
 When you're isolated, you're stuck with your own thoughts.
 Oh, I do really well, Chris.
 I know what you're telling yourself.
 I've been there myself.
 But when you actually, again, go to any business owner who's been through next level of life.
 For a spend-through, next level of life, for a spend-through strap plan,
 and is discovered this.
 And ask him on the backside, hey, what happened when you started spending time with other people,
 and cutting down some of that work, every single time you'll get the same response,
 that it was refreshing, that it energized him.
 They didn't have to go spend tons of time with other people.
 You probably needed to spend more time with their families.
 First, but when they would get out and spend time with other people,
 what they would find is, is on the build-up.
 Let's say it's a guy's not our girl's night, right?
 On the build-up, it was like, oh, gosh, I don't want to do this thing.
 And then they get there and I'm like, oh, this was such a blast.
 It's such a good time.
 That was actually really fun.
 I need to do more of that.
 That tends to be the response.
 I need to do more of that.
 So look for and expect inspiration all around you.
 Yes, even in your flip flops, if you're on the beach.
 Yes, if you're in your snow boots sitting in the snow on a chairlift,
 in ski boots, look all around for inspiration.
 One of the best, one of the questions that we asked during next-level life
 is what is life giving to you.
 And that's one of the things that people go, I don't know what that means.
 I don't understand that question.
 And my answer is always the same.
 There's lots of things that bring me joy.
 There's lots of things that I choose to be happy about.
 But some of the things that bring me life that give me life,
 when I go back home to the mountains in Tahoe and walk through the woods that I grew up in,
 when I go breathe the air, when I go stare at the lake,
 when I go smell the amazing smells of the plant life that are around.
 When I see the pine trees and the pine cones,
 I wonder if there's this fabulous thing back up at 7,000,000 feet.
 When you're looking at these dark green pine trees against this incredible blue sky,
 the colors, it's just something that I can sit and stare at for the longest time.
 When the sun's going down and the pine trees look like the spears that are just,
 you know, poking into the sky, cutting into the sky,
 it's just beautiful. It gives me life.
 There's never a time that, like, especially if I go intentionally to rest,
 to just spend time not go ballistic, not go play in 17,000 things,
 but to go to rest, there's never a time that I don't come back with more life inside of me, right?
 So there's many times if you look around you, you can choose whether,
 for you, maybe it's sitting on the beach, for you, maybe it's, you know,
 four day weekend fishing. I don't know.
 Maybe it's a four day weekend reading. I don't know.
 Whatever it is, you've got to find those times and then while you're there,
 allow that to inspire.
 When we come back, the third benefit to leaders who dare to take a break might actually surprise you.
 Hey, folks, a couple of years ago, I was visiting with a client,
 and the CEO said to me, Chris, we're not going to hit our goal. I asked him what he meant,
 and he said, we're going to miss our three year revenue goal coming out of
 strat plan by a few months. I didn't realize it at first that he was having a little fun with me by saying,
 they were about to triple their company in less than three years.
 Now, now, freaking awesome is that. Folks, these are the kinds of results that businesses get
 by coming through our four day strat plan events. On average, we've
 find two point one million dollars worth of revenue in the next 12 months that the company
 was not planning on. And this event is for all size businesses. If you're small,
 medium or large, it works for every single business because it's not industry specific.
 It's about gaining all the information about all the things inside of your business that
 are holding you back from success and then giving you a plan and a process on how to
 walk that out and be successful in your business. By discovering the things that
 are holding you back, it helps you get to all of those goals that you've been planning on for a long
 time. So if you're ready to get the perspective, you need to solve what's
 going to happen. So you can go faster than you need a strap plan. So learn more, go to
 Chrissacardo.com/strap plan that's Chrissacardo.com/strap plan.
 So the third thing that leaders experience when they dare to take time off is
 leaders relationships get a breath of fresh air. Believe it or not, your relationships
 need you to disconnect at regular intervals as well as routinely for proper breaks.
 Your relationships need you to disconnect. If you want a better relationship, so
 another thing that we will do during next level life is we will have people craft a letter
 to God saying the things that are between them and God. Now, not every single person who comes
 through is a believer. We have folks that come through who are not believers as well.
 But we still have people craft this letter anyways. It can be to God, it can be whatever.
 But what we want to show people is that there are so many things that you've put between you
 and God. If you have ever realized that your relationship is never going to be the best
 that possibly can until you surrender the things that are between you and God, when you
 realize that all of a sudden, if you actually surrender those things, then all of a sudden
 grows your relationship like crazy. So if you do not believe me in this, if you don't
 believe that your relationship is going to be refreshed, ask your spouse.
 They might actually be shocked and give you, I don't know what I would do. Ask your spouse,
 hey, how would it be if I just started backing off from the intensity that I have with work?
 What do you think would happen to our relationship? Just see what she says. Just see what they
 expect. See what they feel like they could count on it that happened or what they could
 pay to pay to when it comes to your presence and participation, which you may find.
 You may not like your answers. They might say, I don't believe you can do it.
 They might say, oh my gosh, I've been waiting for this for a long time. I think you'd be a great
 discussion for you to have with your spouse. Even with your kids, oh my gosh, there's so many parents
 that don't that think that their kids don't want them around. You know, that the kids are busy with other things.
 Your kids believe they're not. Would take more of your focus time. They'd take as much as they could get.
 So do you feel like things are a bit stale at home? Take a break, spend time, spend quality time at home. You don't have to even go anywhere.
 What if you just spend quality time at home?
 Heather and I love to just actually spend time sitting out among your animals, just driving around the property, just going and looking at
 it, I don't know, different flowers or, you know, going and looking at the way that the water creates, the creeks on the property.
 There's all kinds of things that we love to just go spend time together with.
 All right, we do run very hard. But what we've discovered is, is that if we don't stop and focus and rest, then we are actually pretty frustrated.
 We find ourselves going, I don't feel rested. We have to stop. We literally say that from time to time. I don't feel rested.
 You know, we need to stop right now. Rest. Just be us. Just spend time so that we can, we know what's going to happen. We know that we're going to have a full on week. We're going to go crazy.
 But spend time at home. You don't have to go anywhere. I will say that I had a fabulous time with my wife recently because for my birthday, she flew us on up to Connecticut and we went to a Kenny logins concert.
 Now, yes, I may be aging myself right there. If you've never seen him in concert, I hate that I've missed decades of him in concert because it's phenomenal. We've now seen him twice in concert. He's just great.
 It was a great time for us to get away. Here's something that's funny. We flew up the day early. Well, it's funny to me. We flew up a day early.
 The concert's not until the next night. And we found ourselves sitting in the hotel room in the morning not doing anything. We literally laid there at both of us were like, I feel guilty. It's like, yep. So what?
 You know, we're like, what do you want to do? Do you want to go to the ocean? Do you want to go? What do you want to do? We could go tour some museums or something which we've never been big museum tours. But we could go do all these kinds of things.
 And both of us just kind of sat there and went, this is actually really nice not doing anything.
 And so on a morning of just a regular day instead of being productive, we should lay there. We sat there, we talked, you know, we really didn't do anything.
 So it was actually very nice. So expectations, limitations, boundaries, etc.
 There are healthy and vital to your relationship. You just need to discover which ones you need to do. So disconnecting is difficult, but necessary. Here's the culture.
 And in order to be fully present, fully engaged and actually pleasant to be around the, you made up, so pleasant. I have caught the times when I've been super super tired or super, you know, overwhelmed that all of a sudden, I'm just, I'm not pleasant to be around.
 We used to travel so much. So many weeks of the year that I found, if I didn't take four days off a long weekend, then I just was upset. I found myself just being frustrated because I hadn't recharged.
 So you just might not be that pleasant to be around. You might not be pleasant for your family, your team, your business. So then you must fully disconnect from your job, your team, your business, right?
 It needs to be scheduled and needs to be on purpose and needs to be something that you look forward to.
 Let it be a reward. Now I'll be honest, I don't get crazy hyped up until I'm usually disconnecting from work to go do that happy thing, right?
 And that somebody who spends a whole lot of time focusing on, oh, I'm going to be on vacation. Why? Because I love what I do for a living, right? I love what I get to do.
 So I'm not actually looking at the time of vacation as I, oh, I'm getting away from something I hate you may though. You may not really enjoy what you do for a living. So it's a great thing to be looking forward to the future, right?
 Either way, when it's time for me to disconnect, I'll I disconnect. I can disconnect in two seconds, right?
 It's something that when it's like, okay, I'm done with this disconnect focus, you know, go relax, go do whatever I can disconnect pretty fast. So here's what I want you to think about. You can and even your spouse can and do a lot when there's an end and sight without that stress is incurred at intervals with interest.
 Think about that. When you do not get the breaks stress is incurred with interest, right? It compounds over time. It gets too heavy quickly. You need this. Your team needs this. They need you to do it. They need to do it as well.
 Your family needs this. So leader, take a break, do it, make it happen, schedule it. Don't have to be tomorrow, but it has to be something that gets you out of all the stress.
 Well, folks, hopefully this has helped you today. As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 (gunshot)