 What's the difference between being controlling and submissive?
 Well, there are ditches to avoid on both sides of that equation.
 And today we'll uncover each of those and help you to avoid the pitfalls.
 And if that's not enough analogies, we'll probably have more in the show.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal of Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life.
 And discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show. Folks, I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Question for you. How many times have you observed someone?
 Someone you know come across as passive. But under the surface,
 you were there trying to control the situation or even another person. Have you ever recognized
 that situation? Here's the question. Can we be both submissive and controlling at the same
 time? Now I want to unpack this question that we received recently from a client,
 because I think it's important to acknowledge this behavior not only in others, but more importantly,
 firstly, in ourselves. Then we can also recognize it. Heck of a lot easier,
 a lot faster than other people, but once again what's so important that we recognize
 what are we doing it? If we can see when we're doing it, then we can obviously
 recognizing it, recognize it and others, and that also helps us to make sure that we make right decisions
 in the moment. So what does it mean to be submissive? Now there is healthy, fruitful, and even biblical
 side of an appropriately submissive posture. Scripture tells us to submit to God and to resist the devil.
 It tells us to submit to those who employ us as well as those who govern us as an authority that's been
 placed in over our lives by God. Now you may not like a lot of that and you may disagree with God on that,
 but well, he does say he has something to do with that. So we should understand it. It also tells us to
 submit to each other in love. If we do that, if we put people before ourselves, if we prefer others
 above ourselves, then it's an antidote for selfish and self-centered ways. So think about this.
 It is incredibly difficult to really focus on yourself, to be super selfish or self-centered,
 when you're putting others first. Now we're talking about that in the sense of putting other people first,
 loving other people more than yourself, but we're going to hit the other side of this, right? We're going to
 get to the other side as well. So there are appropriate and right ways to be aligned with others.
 There's health and order giving us fruit in the mutual rapport with the comes healthy accountability,
 which is life giving and helps us avoid a lot of problems. So it doesn't necessarily mean that we're
 going to always agree with the other person, but it does mean that we respect the person. We respect
 the role that we're trying to foster harmony. We're trying to help people to choose happening.
 So when we come back examining the other side of submissiveness so that we can avoid it.
 [Music]
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue,
 when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having a lack of
 high quality communication. To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life,
 it all starts with having great communication. The best way to get that communication is to
 understand your personality style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're
 spending the most time with, whether it be at work, whether it be at home. The best way to do that
 is to go to Chrissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your
 team to date. Get it for your family members. Today, as you go through that profile, you will begin to
 see the greatest ways to communicate. Go to Chrissacrittle.com/store2day.
 So there is another side to submissiveness. Now this is the downside where things get out of balance.
 It's a it's a it's a passivity that seeks to avoid conflict and/or responsibility. I think we all
 can understand that. I think we can all relate to that. Even the person who doesn't tend to have a problem
 with conflict, there are probably times that there is a level of passing on responsibility that comes
 with submissiveness that they can understand. They can relate to. So instead, it harbors fear,
 frustration and it also can hide abuse. Some examples are. Sometimes you might find
 wives that will abdicate their voice in a home out of fear of a domineering or overly critical husband who
 doesn't appropriately love and respect his wife. We we probably relate to that a heck of a lot more
 than the other one that happens a lot nowadays as well, which is sometimes fathers will remain
 aloof. Sometimes the husband and a married, during a family will will abdicate their role
 in the home, assuming a passive submissive posture. It may look like he's deferring or being
 preferential to a spouse about the things like discipling the children or not stepping up and
 making things happen, making decisions. But a lot of times it's avoiding responsibility. Most of the
 time, I will tell you, it's a voting conflict. Most of the time when you see a submissive husband who is
 submitted his authority or even submissive wife that is submitted her authority, it's because there's an
 incredibly controlling spouse. We're going to get to those pieces as well. Sometimes it's an employee
 who accepts a certain level of harshness or even abuse by domineering bosses seeking to avoid conflict
 just so that they can get by and not rock the boat. How many people have you known that have stayed in a
 job with a terrible leader? Because they didn't want to rock the boat, they didn't want to create
 more conflict. Unfortunately, they stayed in that type of position for a very long time. So those are
 areas of people submitting their authority or what we were called being and it doesn't just necessarily
 mean that you're submitting your authority. But usually what we discover is, is that when somebody is incredibly
 submissive in those types of unhealthy situations that immediately what they hand over is their authority.
 I don't have authority in this situation. I don't have the ability to fix this. I don't have the ability
 to change this. Whatever it is that's going through their mind, they're choosing that they do not have
 a position or an authority to stand up. No, sometimes it could be true. But you always have an option.
 You always have a choice. And that's an important thing for every person understand. If you work
 for a very domineering boss, who's a total jerk and is abusive, you don't have to work there. Oh,
 but it's so difficult to find out. No, it's not. There's tons of jobs out there available.
 Well, you don't understand my situation. Listen, here's what I'm saying. There's always options.
 There's always choices. And the crazy thing is when the person who finds themself in that situation
 does make a choice to get out of that crap, to get out of people leading them that way or treating them
 that way, then usually what they do is look back and go, I wish I had done that five years earlier. So
 so what does it mean to be controlling? Let's look at the other side of this coin. So controlling
 behavior on their other hand is exerting influence, power or supposed power or position over another
 person, which is usually out of fear and security or even sometimes, believe it or not, past trauma.
 In an effort to impose one's will. The goal is that I impose my will on you if I make controlling
 person, the controlling person seeks to coerce or subordinate another person. This is almost always
 when a controlling person feels out of control. Now, you've heard me say this a billion times.
 You've probably heard other people talk about this as well. Control is an illusion.
 I can't control you except to physically control you. I can't control your mind. I can't make you think
 something. I can't make you feel anything. Well, that person makes me feel sad or angry or hurt or
 no, nobody can make you feel those feelings. You choose those feelings. Those feelings are things that
 are happening inside of you. I can highly suggest that you feel sad, hurt, abused, whatever. I can
 highly suggest it. But I don't make you feel it. Once you choose it, then you actually have that feeling.
 You have that belief. This is where so much of the control comes from. So much of control isn't that
 I can actually control you. If I can control you physically, then I've got you physically. That's about it.
 But your feeling starts and you're intellect your emotions. Those are things that I can control of you.
 Those are things that you have to choose. If I highly suggest to you that
 you're stupid, gosh, that just gives me chills to even say that out loud because of how many times I
 know that people do that. If I highly suggest you that you're not good enough, that you're not pretty enough.
 You're not smart enough. You're not handsome enough. You're not funny enough. You don't do a good enough
 job. Whatever it is. If I'm highly suggesting that to you and it's not factually based information
 that is constructive to help you in a situation. Like if you're a worker and you're not doing a
 good enough job and I as your leader come along and have to sit down and have a tough conversation with
 things you're not doing well. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about the
 person who wants to sit your reality that you're not good enough. That you're not worthy enough. The goal
 is ultimately to bend someone else to their will. So the hopeful outcome for the controlling person is that
 they feel back in control and/or powerful. So the goal is to ultimately bend someone else to
 their will. The hopeful outcome for the controlling person is that they feel back in control and/or
 powerful and that their intended target feels less than worthless or not even, you know, not good enough.
 That's what they're hoping for. They're feeling out of control. They feel like they have to take control
 which again they can't take control. They can only highly suggest that somebody feels a specific way.
 If that person receives it, then the controlling person will tend to feel back in control. They will
 definitely many times feel powerful. Many times it is to convince themselves that they are powerful.
 If the intended target appears to have received the control mechanism, the control maneuvers, let me
 say it that way, then they feel a heck of a lot better about themselves as a controlling person. They feel
 back in control. In those moments that is incredibly self-centered, selfish, the other person and how they
 feel is not the focus of that controlling person. The goal is to hurt that person in a way
 that the controlling person feels better about themselves. In the whole time, this is the crazy thing.
 None of it is actually real. I can't control you. What is real is that I could suggest that you
 hurt. I could suggest that you feel bad about yourself. I could suggest that you're not good enough.
 And if you receive it which is completely your choice, then I convince myself that I've controlled you.
 That's how the controlling person responds. They actually convince themselves, look at me,
 I've hurt that person, which means I'm back in control, yarayada, it's just a ridiculous cycle.
 It would be so different if somebody could actually make somebody feel that way. The problem is,
 is that on the other side of this, when we receive it, it was our choice.
 Those of us who have received plenty of controlled suggestion in our lives. I can tell you, I've got
 tons of it in my background. Those of us that have received that and then turned it into our own truth.
 That's our fault. That's on us guys. If we choose for that to happen, we can't then turn around
 and blame somebody else and say, you made me feel this way. The key is we've got to know how to be able to
 stand up. We've got to know how to be able to put healthy boundaries in place. We've got to be able to know
 truth about ourselves. For all of us who are believers in God, you need to know his truth because no matter
 what man says, only God can tell you the truth about you. So if man tries to set your reality
 that is different than God's, you shouldn't be listening. You shouldn't be receiving it. You should give it
 right back to that person and walk on. Think about controlling people is. They are manipulators.
 Controllers seek to get their own way at the expense of other people. Folks, this is a form of abuse.
 When you recognize it that way, if you can see that submissive people out there that I'm talking to,
 if you can see that, and recognize that it's abusive, then hopefully you can put some healthy boundaries
 in place. Now, when we come back, putting those two pieces of the puzzle together, seeing what submissive
 and controlling behavior looks like at the same time. Freedom, it's so powerful. I don't
 rejuvenate and I'm almost renewed. I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an
 ounce of judgment. So I was very comfortable there. That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it. It's going to be hard, but it's going to be even better on the other side.
 For me, it was just a very refreshing and I want to say life giving to me, and really was.
 You know, I would go to the next level of life again and probably again and probably again,
 because it's so powerful. If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation,
 the same kind of self-awareness and freedom that they have, or maybe you're just curious what the
 process would look like for you, then head on over to crsacrido.com/nextlevellife.
 Okay, the big question now is can controllers, can controlling people act in a submissive way,
 or vice versa? Yep, the answer is yes, and it's not so strange when you think about it. So
 if a submissive person is pushed or controlled long enough to the point of emotional pain,
 some, some, and it's not a large group, but some submissive people can become incredibly controlling
 through victim mentality. Now, it's in order to try and gain some level of control. Think about that.
 When they're pushed long enough hard enough, and they don't want to betray themselves,
 because they're allowing somebody to push on them in a specific way, what can happen through
 victim mentality? What am I saying? I'm saying that person believes this is happening to them.
 They don't have any other alternatives. Now, most submissive people allow to happen to them.
 They may still be in victim mentality. They may still be saying that they don't have any options
 or any alternatives, and they just go on and they allow it to exist. But there is a small group of
 submissive people push long enough hard enough. That victim mentality will build up so much in
 their mind that they can begin by being passive aggressive and project all kinds of stuff onto the
 other person. They can even blow up into full-blown control and sound a whole lot like the controlling
 person themselves, and they can start to manipulate others. They can do it through
 veiled threads. They can do it through belittling or teasing. They can use guilt as a tool for influence.
 There's all kinds of little tools that a person uses at that point. It doesn't look much different than
 the controlling person. The matter of fact that looks just like the controlling person. The difference
 is that the controlling person feels out of control and is trying to take control. The submissive
 person, and again, this is a smaller group, but they do exist. The submissive person in this situation
 is actually fighting to gain control from where they feel like they've fallen to. They feel so far
 behind. They feel so attacked. They feel so pushed that they will actually fight to just trying
 get back to some level of normalcy in their mind, which is again, trying to not betray themselves and
 allow themselves to be in their mind. Victim mentality wise beat down. Why am I saying it like that?
 submissive people listen to me. I'm one of you. The first half of my life was very much submitting
 myself to people and allowing them to tell me who I was, what I was, how I thought, how I screwed up
 everything in their life that I never even came close to and was responsible for their problems and
 pains and everything. It wasn't even in the room when they were experiencing things. I know what
 I know what you're feeling right now. I know what you're thinking. Listen to me. We're talking about
 the response. The response that says, "I must battle back," says that's a great indicator that you're
 already behind. That's a great indicator that you've already been receiving what this person is doing
 or people. Sometimes it's people that do it. That's showing, you know, you should take a hard look at
 how you're feeling inside and if you've got a adrenaline pump and if you've got frustration pumping,
 anger pumping and you believe that you're being attacked and you very well-mabe. That's a great
 indicator that you are allowing yourself to get out of control. But what you're convincing yourself is
 this other person is forcing you, attacking you to be out of control. So you have to recognize those
 things. If you can recognize it, then you can start giving back the things that are being said to you
 in a very healthy way. I'm not going to receive that. That is a lie. You can keep that. I can't
 stay in this conversation. This is a very unhealthy conversation. All kinds of tools that you can do to
 push back. So seemingly submissive and passive people can act as reality centers for other people.
 What do I mean by that? You hear me saying that a lot, it's something that it's a term that we use,
 setting one's reality. That's saying, it's not saying truth. If I look at you and you were wearing a
 blue shirt or a blue dress and I say you're wearing a blue shirt or a blue dress, I'm not setting
 your reality. If you're wearing a blue shirt or a blue dress and I go, you're wearing a pink shirt or a
 pink dress. I've now set your reality. I'm telling you what your reality is and it's incorrect.
 If I am telling you you're a jerk and you're not being a jerk, I've just set your reality.
 The problem is, is that many times we don't recognize if we are being a jerk, then somebody's not
 technically setting our reality. We need to take responsibility. So quite often for what we do for
 a living, myself, Joel, other folks and you know, Aaron, other folks in our company, we have people
 that try and set our reality. The first thing we have to immediately do is ask the question,
 are they right? Is what they're saying correct? Why? Because it is way more important to
 recognize, especially, people who lead others, did we just do some wrong? Most of the time,
 what you'll find out very quickly is, nope, that is not correct. The reason why they're struggling
 with this, why they're setting my reality is because they're hurting. They're experiencing pressure.
 They're feeling whatever. Right? Once we recognize that, then we can go on by giving them healthy
 feedback, push, you know, healthy options. Sometimes it just comes in the form of healthy questions.
 Hey, question for you. Do you feel like I'm attacking you right now? Do you feel like I'm
 hurting you right now? Are you feeling in the amazing thing? Is this a person who works through those things?
 They go, no, no, no, I'm sorry. This feels like something else. And I'll talk about that in just a
 little bit. A lot of times, it can feel like the pressure of other situations. But what you will find
 somebody who is fighting back a submissive person who's becoming controlling, you might find them
 saying things like, you are this or that. You think this or that. You never this or that. You always
 this or that. You have this or that, you know, feeling that this or that, feeling the blanks there.
 They come back with setting a reality really harshly. And the reason why is because they
 understand that's the thing that tends to work against them. And it really can very quickly
 in their minds. And sometimes it's truth throw the other person off that immediate attack. They hate it.
 The type of submissive person who takes this controlling posture actually hates it. They hate taking
 the posture. They don't feel good about it at the time. They have convinced themselves that they are
 victim and that they're being attacked. Usually, and again, that could very well be true. They tend to
 throw barbs when they feel threatened even if and here's the tough part, there is no threat. Now,
 once again, most of the time they probably do have some other controlling people who are
 setting their reality. I know I keep saying this because I want you to see the healthy version of this,
 right? They can respond just as controlling with someone who is healthy and is trying to help them.
 The pressure that they feel in the healthy situation can feel surprisingly the same as they feel
 with the unhealthy people in the unhealthy situations. Let me say that again.
 Quite often what we experience in the next level of life and strat plan, just in coaching,
 quite often what we experience is as we're helping somebody get through something sometimes the pressure
 of the health, the help actually feels like the pressure from a controlling person that they're used to.
 And usually what we can do is trace it back to a very controlling parent somewhere, a very controlling
 spouse, very controlling leader boss in their life. So force of habit response actually tends to push
 them straight into self protection through control. Force of habit response tends to push them straight to
 self protection through control. When they feel that same that same pressure and it's in a
 healthy sense which is why we start asking the healthy questions. What are you feeling right now?
 What do you experience saying? Do you feel like you're being attacked? Do you feel like
 have I said anything that's hurt you? Have it when you actually walk through the healthy
 questions and it allows that person to go nope you haven't. Okay then let's get to what you're experiencing
 which is the pressure of the help. How does the pressure of the help feel? Well it feels a lot like
 I'm about to get my head ripped off. It feels a lot like about and what they'll do is they'll start to
 explain usually somebody from their past how somebody would have handled that situation in the past.
 And so crazy enough they don't have enough healthy people giving them help in situations like this.
 So when it does come up and it hurts a little bit and it's a little painful they recognize it is
 being the same type of pressure. Once you walk them through it they're like oh my gosh I can't
 believe that feels the same as this other situation. So some things you may notice these tactics are
 obviously to gain leverage. Hopefully they haven't gone bonkers controlling and are demanding it but
 sometimes what you'll discover is that they have a tendency to stuff things down. They're things
 that they haven't dealt with their internal their own internal issues. They're things that they haven't
 communicated very well. Sometimes they feel like they haven't communicated their thoughts very well
 and somebody's not taking it very well or not responding very well. So when we don't address the conflict
 openly and objectively then it can pile up internally and it can start just leaking out until it
 becomes eventually a flood. It can come out little by little. Sometimes it's just little barbs,
 little barbs, little barbs and then it might turn into things like defensiveness, it might turn into
 lashing out, it might turn into attacks. So you might have a different situation where a person adopts a
 submissive approach with one person but is entirely controlling with someone else in a different environment.
 That is also something that we see, something that we experience. It's possible that you've got a
 spouse that is controlling in home privately and then when they're in their workplace they're more submissive.
 The same person is experiencing very different things, different atmospheres, different personalities
 in the different situations. So if they're in the context of home it's very possible
 that they're feeling threatened. It's very possible that they're feeling abused. It's very
 possible that they're feeling out of control. There's so many different ways to look at this again
 if we're looking at just the controlling person then we know exactly where they're starting at. They're starting
 at feeling out of control. They're trying to take control. For talking about the submissive person,
 it can be that they've been so controlled for so long and allowed it that they're having to fire back.
 So it's possible that when they get to work this person doesn't feel threatened. It may be that they
 know the hierarchy and they don't feel out of control. It could be that they feel comfortable in the
 role and they don't feel like they need to expose any insecurities. They maybe feel like they can hide
 their insecurities and they don't have to worry about anything. They don't feel like they need to
 self-protect. Now I can tell you also if you experience a spouse being aggressive, demanding, critical
 in the home then what you may see is that they're actually bringing home a lot of the stress that
 they're experiencing at work. A lot of times a person who is more comfortable with their family will have
 a tendency to take out their other stresses on their family or even on just people that they're
 close to or trust or feel like they're not going to lose that relationship with. It's not the kind of
 thing that they would do at work. It might be something that they bring home from the office. It could
 be career frustrations. It could be that there's a team member at work that's just totally rude or jerk
 to them or it's not being helpful. Whatever it is. Maybe they can't resolve the insecurities that
 they're feeling and the interconflicts that they're experiencing at work so they internalize them
 until they get home. Then they start projecting flaws. They start projecting failures on those around them.
 I will tell you that tends to be more again of the controlling person than it does. The submissive
 person who just randomly comes home and does it however they're still that percentage. That's
 smaller percentage of those that are submissive that sometimes they just need a place to dump their
 emotions. They're feeling what they're experiencing and unfortunately the people they trust the
 most are feel the most comfortable with are at home. So what do we do about this? Well first thing
 we have to do the first step towards finding healing, the first step towards finding health is that we
 have to recognize and acknowledge this behavior in our self. Start with you. Start asking yourself
 the question when do I become controlling? When do I feel out of control? That's actually the best
 start right? Sit down. Take yourself about 30 minutes or more. You may need more. In right
 down every situation where you feel out of control. I will tell you most likely the places that you feel
 out of control have to do with failure. Most of the time that you feel out of control is when you
 feel like you have failed or you're going to fail. It's important to recognize those moments because
 if you don't do something about it, if you don't fix your situation then guess what? You will just continue
 to feel out of control. It will push you that fear of failure or that or that. Maybe you did fail.
 Maybe you should do something up. But the response is I'm out of control. So now how do I respond?
 Right? Those things down. Maybe it's when people are being controlling with you. Maybe it's when you're
 around a specific parent or both parents. Maybe it's around siblings or whatever. Right?
 Those situations down recognize and acknowledge when you respond in a controlling matter. Once you
 can do that, it can help you to start recognizing other people that feel out of control. Now be careful
 with this. You may need to write this down and then burn it. But once you've done the first part,
 spend some time thinking about other people who appear to be controlling. Now keep them
 in mind. This is totally subjective to how you experience this person or it may be totally subjective to
 you being in victim mentality. But write down some people that are that appear to be controlling in your
 life and then write down why you think they feel so out of control. When do they feel so out of control?
 When do they respond that way? Here's the reason why this is important. Again, once you've written this
 down, maybe commit it to memory and burn it, you know what people look at at that and not getting
 the right understanding of it. If you can see when your spouse feels out of control and they become
 controlling. If you can see when your kids feel out of control and become controlling and you can look
 at it through the lens of health. In other words, you're not losing worth. You're not struggling. You're
 not feeling out of control. Sometimes you can help that person to recognize it as well. It's tough.
 The person out of control, the last thing they want is somebody else telling them how out of control
 they are. So it'd be very careful in the process. But if I can help somebody see what they're experiencing
 and what they're feeling in the moment and help them to see that they feel out of control, then sometimes
 I can help them to avoid it. I can help them to make different decisions in the moment. So start that
 process. Take those first steps forward and then start putting the healthy boundaries in place.
 Am I being attacked? If the answer is yes, healthy boundary, you can keep that. You can change your tone.
 I'm not going to sit here and listen to you talk to me that way if you would like to talk to me like a
 human being. I would be glad to, but this isn't going to happen right now. You can put the healthy
 boundaries in place that gets you out of that situation. If you're not being attacked, you need to
 recognize it. If somebody's trying to help and this is a very healthy process, you got to suck it
 up, buttercup. You're the one who struggling. So it's important to recognize when you struggle with
 help, when you struggle with somebody being healthy in your life. Start looking at these things.
 Start looking at the times that you avoid conflict. Start looking at the times you self-protect.
 Take a look at these situations. Find out what they all have in common and how you respond.
 And then start putting healthy boundaries in place. Well, folks, that's all the time we have
 for today. I hope this information has helped you. If you'd like more on this, just let us know.
 Send us an email, podcast@christacurl.com. If this is helping you, if this show is helping you,
 then I ask a huge favor from you. This is something that we do for free to help people as much as possible.
 Go rank us. Go give us five stars if you want to. Go leave a good review if you would like to.
 If you don't have any good reviews for us, you don't have to leave anything at all. That'd be funny. So
 but that helps us to reach more people and help other people to experience peace or help
 and to choose more happiness in their life. As always, take this information, change your leadership,
 change your business, change your life, and join us on the next day.
 [Music]