 What happens when leaders take the time to train their teams really well?
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks. I hope you're having a fabulous day, wherever you are.
 I am currently enjoying the rain that is so much needed in falling right now.
 I'm sure a lot of you are in some pretty darn hot places as well.
 And we've had, we have needed this rain, so I'm actually glad that it is falling.
 And that is fabulous, so I am loving that.
 So on today's show, we are going to unpack the benefits of training your team well.
 It goes without saying that a well-trained team is something that most leaders dream of,
 but they often don't make time for it. They often don't even know the resources to allocate
 much less allocate those resources or even invest in their employees adequately.
 But today I want to give you three reasons for making team training a priority.
 So when we come back, we are going to bypass all the excuses and get down to the business of training your employees,
 and team members, and leadership teams, well.
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here. I'm the Vice President of Leadership Development on Chris's team,
 and I oversee our next level mastermind business coaching program.
 Most business owners and leaders lack a clear path to succeed in business.
 They question whether they're making the right decisions,
 if they're focusing on the right things to really grow their business.
 If this is you, you need to coach in your life.
 Coaches help you make better decisions, navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively,
 and grow your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue
 and an average of 138% increase in net profit, and regain hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for three and a half years, simply because of the results they get.
 So if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting,
 then visit Chrisacordo.com/mastermind.
 Again, Chrisacordo.com/mastermind today.
 So, reason number one is confidence, creativity, and effectiveness.
 Now, team members who are well trained, well-invest in, and cared for, have more confidence in their role.
 Makes sense, right? I mean, just think about it as confidence grows,
 then they naturally gain creativity.
 They naturally increase their task execution and their overall effectiveness.
 Wouldn't you put yourself in that situation?
 This means that there's lower frustration levels.
 This means that there's higher morale in general.
 This means that there's greater potential for productivity.
 So, when you train your team well, confidence, creativity, effectiveness.
 Great reasons to be focusing on them.
 Reason number two, scalability in growth becomes natural by products, listen to me here.
 When team members who are well trained have greater capacity and greater expertise and decision-making,
 then it's a logical progression that you can actually scale that you can actually grow.
 Think about it.
 Teams that are really well trained, they're able to make better decisions.
 They're able to think for themselves.
 They're able to take on more responsibility.
 You're able, if you're leading well in delegating properly as we teach you to,
 they're able to take on more stuff, which means that we're able to grow.
 We're able to do more.
 I will tell you something I tell people all the time is, if my team can't do it with excellence,
 and we do a lot of stuff with excellence, then we just don't do it.
 The great thing is as my team grows, we're able to add more things that we can do with excellence.
 That's the thing that's what you're looking for when it comes to scalability.
 It's not about just hiring more people and putting them in the seats.
 We get a ton of stuff done with less people.
 When you are just putting bodies in the seats and they're not being more effective and they're not being,
 they're not growing into experts, then you have to keep hiring more people to make it happen.
 So as the capacity of the team member and large as they're invested in,
 as the team becomes more technically proficient, then efficiency increases.
 The customer experiences improved, which increases referrals and look at that.
 Now you've got more clients.
 So scalability absolutely works well when you're spending time investing in your team.
 When we come back, the third benefit of teams who are trained well is a benefit to the leader.
 Hey folks.
 A couple of years ago, I was visiting with a client and the CEO said to me, "Chris, we're not going to hit our goal."
 I asked him what he meant and he said, "We're going to miss our three year revenue goal coming out of Stratplanned by a few months."
 I didn't realize it at first that he was having a little fun with me by saying they were about to triple their company in less than three years.
 How freaking awesome is that.
 Folks, these are the kinds of results that businesses get by coming through our four-day Stratplanned events.
 On average, we find $2.1 million worth of revenue in the next 12 months that the company was not planning on.
 And this event is for all-size businesses.
 If you're small, medium, or large, it works for every single business because it's not industry-specific.
 It's about gaining all the information about all the things inside of your business that are holding you back from success
 and then giving you a plan and a process on how to walk that out and be successful in your business.
 By discovering the things that are holding you back, it helps you get to all of those goals that you've been planning on for a long time.
 So if you're ready to get the perspective you need to solve what's holding you and your business back, so you can grow faster than you need Stratplanned.
 To learn more, go to Chrissacordo.com/Stratplanned.
 That's Chrissacordo.com/Stratplanned.
 Reason number three, the leader has the opportunity to sit back and dream more, which can change the trajectory of the company.
 So what if you are free to sit back and dream more often?
 Because your team is capable, but what if you're able to delegate more because your team is more knowledgeable and have more capacity?
 What if you're free to up and give time to dream about what could be in the future?
 Big piece, what if you have the confidence that your team was in a place to do things with excellence that would allow the company to grow?
 Even bigger.
 One of the things I absolutely love about my team is by the time I'm coming to them with what I think is a great idea.
 They've already been ruminating on it for weeks.
 I can't tell you how many times I've come to my team and said, hey guys, start digging into this over here thinking about this and it's like, yeah, we've actually been talking about that for the last two weeks.
 Oh, great. I don't even have to think about it because they're already ahead of me on it.
 That allows me to focus on even bigger things than those.
 So they're growing the business. I can now think even bigger picture. I've got great team members that are able to run with things.
 So folks, I can't stress this enough.
 You've got to take time to make the right hires.
 You've got to have fairly elaborate or at least thorough onboarding processes.
 You've got to invest in training and stop making assumptions about what they know. Why?
 Because your team is your greatest asset as a business owner as a leader.
 So take care of them, reward them, acknowledge them.
 They are worth the investment.
 Oh, folks, I hope this is helped you today.
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]