 It's easy to blur the lines between the home and the office, especially when you work
 in a home office.
 So how do you not take your work home with you?
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day, wherever you are.
 Today we are continuing digging into some super practical topics in our series of how
 two episodes, actually today is actually a little bit different.
 Today is going to be a how not to do something.
 So joining me on the show today from beautiful Sicily with an amazing view of Mount
 Edna and feeling the heat from Mount Edna is bright Alex, bright welcome to the show.
 They say if you can't feel the heat, if you get ahead of the heat, you got to get
 out of the guy.
 I don't know if you can feel the heat, I don't know what you're supposed to do.
 If you can't get to the point where I can't handle it though.
 If you can't stand the heat, get out of Katanya, what are those things?
 Something like that.
 So welcome brother, how are things?
 He's not talking.
 He's not.
 He's not.
 I'm not living really close to volcano.
 I'm looking forward to this episode because like you and like some of us, we work very
 close in proximity to where we also live.
 I don't live on a farm, although this morning at 6 a.m.
 There was a herd of goats going by my friend.
 It feels like a farm.
 Do you think fresh milk is going by for your coffee?
 Hold up right here.
 As their passing anyway.
 But I just get a little milk really quickly.
 But no, this is a practical episode because it's practically where we live and I'll use that
 metaphorically.
 I mean, the separation of office and home, especially for folks out there that have multi-purpose
 rooms, like the room that I'm sitting in.
 I use it for multiple things.
 And so there's really no delineation.
 There's no, I'm not hitting the clock and punching out and leaving and physically removing
 myself.
 So I used to look forward, living in Nashville, a little bit of a commute.
 Even 15 minutes in Franklin.
 20 minutes was a decompressed time.
 And you get to disassociate what you were doing all day, 8, 9, 10 hours, whatever.
 And you go home and you have kind of your other life.
 Here, it's blurred.
 I just like what you were saying a minute ago.
 All those lines are just blurred.
 So I mean, you deal with that all the time too, right?
 I'm on the on the on the on the on the on the ridge on the farm in the office and the recording
 studio that's probably used for other things.
 Yep.
 And it's funny because our goal with the ridge is to be able to move the whole business here.
 So going back and forth between what we do at the current building, doing events there
 and wanting to get a lot of events moved up here at the bare minimum in the next level
 life, the strap plans, but we would love to be able to get the quarter, uh, quarterly retreats
 for next level, mastermind up here, even possibly the next level leadership live event.
 Our hope is to get all that moved up here.
 So it's this process of trying to get this place set up so that we can move the business.
 So it is absolutely a farm and we we love that.
 But that's one aspect of what we're doing.
 But like you're pointing out, it's one thing of the many things that we are running from
 this place.
 So as much as we can work here, we work here when we do events and everything we go back to
 the main office.
 But then we're also operating, you know, the setup for the move of the business, then we're
 operating a farm.
 Then we also operate our other businesses up here.
 We've got two different types of real estate businesses, you know, but all of that is happening
 in two places.
 And it becomes very difficult sometimes if you don't know how to separate work from your regular
 life and that's something I had to learn early on in my career.
 And funny thing is that I never actually knew that I would be in a place where I would
 be remote.
 That is something that has I've always been against.
 Thank you, COVID.
 I have always been against the remote because there's so much and I definitely think remote hurts
 culture to an extent.
 We've worked really hard to keep culture, but I think it affects it dramatically, but at the
 same time, man, I can't, I look forward to the day that everything is moved very close to where
 I am, but still where we're going to actually have the buildings and where we're going to
 live our decent amount of distance apart because we have to separate those.
 So that is all the kind of stuff that we're going to dive in when we come back right after
 this.
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here.
 I'm the Vice President of Leadership Development on Chris's team and I oversee our next
 level mastermind business coaching program.
 Most business owners and leaders lack a clear path to succeed in business.
 The question whether they're making the right decisions, if they're focusing on the right things
 to really grow their business.
 If this is you, you need a coach in your life.
 Coaches help you make better decisions, navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively, and grow
 your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue
 and an average of 138% increase in net profit and regain hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3 1/2 years simply because of the results they get.
 So if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been
 wanting, then visit ChrisCardo.com/mastermind.
 Again, ChrisCardo.com/mastermind today.
 Alright, so picking up on that note, boundaries are healthy.
 We talk about boundaries all the time.
 Hopefully they're healthy boundaries, yes.
 They can't, let's say they can be healthy.
 They can be a waste of time.
 Our healthy and helpful think about your driving your car, not here in Sicily, because it really
 doesn't matter if there's lines on the street or not.
 But I'll say in the States, it's healthy.
 It's helpful to have that delineation.
 We're not talking about compartmentalizing your life when we talk about how to separate one
 thing from another.
 We're talking about giving it definition, defining work hours and having clarity because that kind
 of clarity, a good kind of clarity gives us space.
 It gives us our lives.
 It helps us breathe and take a break.
 And we've talked about that here actually on the podcast recently.
 You've gone into how leaders need to have a healthy break and to take time off and be with
 their families and all of that.
 But as you've gone through the struggle earlier on, as you mentioned, and you have remote workers
 now over here on this continent and other places, we've all--
 Three different countries were working from, yeah.
 We all struggle with that because we've got, like we, we started out by saying these multi-purpose
 environments that were in.
 And changing gears, changing mindsets can be messy.
 So Chris, this is where we want to just dig in and you take it from here.
 But how can someone stop taking work home with them?
 What does that look like?
 So I'm going to ask you a question first for clarification, perspective, because I believe being
 on the same page is super important.
 When you say compartmentalizing, what is your definition of compartmentalizing?
 Yeah, when I think about compartmentalizing, especially in the topic that we're talking about today,
 I think back to a time where maybe my parents, grandparents, they were able to go to work
 early in the morning dressed in whatever, you know, garb that they needed to do that job.
 They had almost a different life, let's say, and they would come home at the end of the day.
 And there's this really clean disconnect, but also it's almost as if that was a different person.
 And we talk about this sometimes, in fact, we've got some episodes coming up where personality
 styles can be experienced and be perceived differently in different environments.
 And I think there's an unhealthy kind of compartmentalization that can happen.
 We want fluidity in the sense that we're the same person that we're being genuine and transparent.
 And there's a health level.
 But over here, how do we do that when everything's so blurred?
 And there aren't those normal boundaries and delineation that maybe they're used to be.
 And we could even just point back a couple of years ago before COVID and go, okay, my life looked like that.
 And I was able to separate and I had this commute and all of that.
 And that was almost a different life. And again, that can get unhealthy.
 But we're talking about nowadays, that doesn't even really come into the picture.
 You don't have the luxury anymore of changing hats and changing gears.
 Yeah, so okay, so with that, I would say, for me, I do believe that there is healthy compartmentalizing.
 There's unhealthy compartmentalizing.
 Let's do this. I think this is just, you know, and I may just be off in my definition.
 I believe that there is a way to, in a healthy way to separate work from life.
 Now, with everything you just shared, it is so amazing how, like, I feel really bad for the younger generations that they've not experienced.
 And maybe they have, but they probably have an experience that are parents this way.
 Being able to go do work and your day is done. Right?
 And when you and I were growing up, there wasn't email. There wasn't text, right?
 Our phones were connected to the wall with a, with a wire.
 So it's not like we were, when we were done with the day, we were essentially done with the day.
 There wasn't a whole lot of businesses shut down.
 When it was interesting, when I got into E-tray, when I got into, you know, working with stock market and everything,
 I was early because it all opened East Coast, but it was amazing to me because that was a world that,
 some what kind of ran around the clock, you know, different, different exchanges were opening up at different times.
 And everything now, the main exchanges in America still shut down and they were closed down,
 but there were still things going on. We could still work for hours afterwards.
 And so I hate that people have an experience with what that's like to be able to shut off the work day.
 Now, I'm saying this in realizing that a lot of the people that are listening to us are hearing this message that says,
 you know, you've got to go bust it like crazy forever in your business, right?
 You've got to, you've got to every waking moment that you can, you've got to fill it with somehow a side hustle or, you know,
 making your business work and all that.
 And as somebody who's been doing this for over three decades,
 let me say, well, working for almost four decades, literally almost four decades,
 but have been doing business and leading people on that kind of stuff for over three decades,
 there's a time where that just gets really old.
 There's a time where you start recognizing that the hustle or the side hustle has its value,
 it has its run, but when it starts taking away from your actual life,
 the things that are more important, your family, your kids, your spouse, your marriage,
 then what you're going to discover is it wasn't worth it in the first place.
 Is money that much worth it?
 It never is.
 It's not more important than money is a tool.
 If you do things correctly, you can make plenty of money.
 You can provide for your family, but it's a way of looking at what's important and what happens for so many folks is they go after that hustle,
 hustle, hustle, hustle, hustle, hustle, hustle, make some money and then realize they've affected their relationship with their kids,
 they've affected their relationship with their spouse, and then they're going, oh crap, this wasn't as positive as I thought it was.
 And what they needed was that disconnect.
 They needed to be able to say, I have got to put food on the table.
 This is super important.
 I'm leading a business.
 I need to make that business work, but I'm not going to devote 20 hours of my 24 hours a day to running a business
 and forget what my kids' names are.
 Right?
 So with that being said, before we ever got remote, I used to take a lot of work home.
 I was the guy who was emailing myself stuff and I still do that to an extent.
 It's incredibly low.
 I mean, it's probably like once or twice a week now.
 But there were many times I would do my brain dump in my email back in the day to give myself information of what I'm supposed to do tomorrow.
 So I had to start learning how was affecting my evenings.
 I was affecting relationships and how it would keep me from being present.
 And it's not just me, it's tons of people.
 So for me, I had to start going through and saying, okay, I can't, and how in a healthy way can I compartmentalize the work side.
 This has to step aside and I need to rest.
 I need to relate.
 By gosh, where's my relationship with God?
 You know, if those things are coming first, where's my relationship with, you know, the king of the universe who holds my destiny in his hands, right?
 So start saying recognizing, you know, whenever you say yes to something you're saying, notice something else.
 Start recognizing the need to put blocks of time in, you know, here's when I do all of my Bible study.
 Here's when I'm doing my prayer time.
 Here's when I'm doing exercises. Here's when I'm doing, you know, family stuff and create these almost packages of time that when I get out of the main thing, it's done.
 If I have to come back to it, it is small, it's rare, but really, if it's that crazy important, that I've probably got bigger issues, right?
 If I can't shut it off and go, you know what, I'll get to that tomorrow or, you know, some of myself a little note,
 you know, make sure that you check this out tomorrow. If I can't do that, then I have to recognize how much is my work running my life.
 Instead of my work being something I do in being a part of my life. Does all I make sense?
 Yeah, yeah, definitely. And I think we're, we're underlining the idea of healthy boundaries, creating borders, and, you know, it, to break it down into a, you know, like the, the compartment, if you will, of our environment.
 I have, I have one desk where I do one job. I have another desk or a table where I do a different job, a work that I do.
 So that I have a trigger in my mind of leaving one thing and embracing another. And this is what I found for me that if I don't have some kind of a transition, you know, just like I used to have that drive home.
 I don't have that luxury. I am home. All right. And so if I don't have some kind of a transition, there's no trigger for me as far as my habits, mentality, stress being able to say,
 no to certain notifications on the phone and embrace something else. If I don't have those things, then the lines stay very blurred. And I end up answering those emails later in the night and putting in hours that I shouldn't in places that I don't have time allocated.
 And so there's gotta be those really helpful, practical, just habitual things that we instill into our environment, whether it's physical, local, or into the time of day, just like you're talking about,
 we can compartmentalize time and that's a healthy boundary. We can compartmentalize boundaries or, you know, works faces. Those are healthy boundaries.
 And that may be, you know, for somebody out there that struggles with that overlap, just like you're saying and taking the work home or, you know, continuing to work through the night. I thought, you know, remote.
 When we went remote a couple of years ago, because I was, you know, with you guys in the office, I thought, oh, well, this is going to be lovely. I've got all this free time, you know,
 and actually after a month or two, we came back to the office. We didn't stay remote very long, but what I learned was, Jesus actually more difficult to regulate my time in my home environment.
 And, and the pendulum swung both ways with that, I could find myself working hours and hours and going, oh crap, I didn't know that I had met an all this time over here and and started noticing the misallocation of time.
 So I think compartmentalizing right there is is really helpful. Yeah. So it is important to start taking a look and saying like you like you've pointed out, you've got two different desks for areas that you work with.
 Now, you, you are very task focused, you're both ID, I see your C often takes over in, I need this detail to be separate.
 So if that piece working for you works well because it helps you go, I'm done with that move over here. I think a big thing, especially so let's say we don't have families.
 A big thing for us is to take a look and say, what pieces are important in my day. I don't have that community like you said, now I've got free time.
 I'm not actually driving out, it's only 15 minutes to the office, but I dare say there's probably a lot of people that don't get up, shower, dress the way that they would do all the things that they normally would.
 But he practice, you know, do all the things that they would do before they head into the office. There's probably a whole lot of people roll out of bed, grab a cup of coffee, hit the computer, right?
 So let's just assume that you've got a little bit of free time back, but it's really not a great amount.
 But what we want to look at is what do I need in my day now for me and for my wife, no ifs answer but it's about it. Prayer and Bible studies are number one thing first thing in the morning. Now it is so much better for me.
 I discovered now I could exercise better in the morning than I can any other time a day, but for me to do my studying, it is so much better in the morning so that comes first. That's more important to me.
 And then what I do get the times that I get to work out on the farm, I get a lot of exercise in there, so that's great.
 That is number one. We are taking up that time together, spending time in prayer, spending time studying the word, that's a must. Nothing gets in that time. It's very rare that we don't spend that quality time together.
 And this doesn't get in there. Non emergency family stuff doesn't get in there. There's just stuff that doesn't nothing makes it into that time because if we don't do that time, then we're not making God that priority.
 After that, then it's a matter of, is there things that we have to do on the farm, or things that we have to get done before we start work.
 I think every person needs to do is say, I've got these, I've got to get this much work done in a day. If somebody is expecting or paying me eight hours a day or I'm paying myself eight hours a day, then I've got to look at my blocks of time, not because I need to, you know, hold myself accountable to doing the eight hours.
 I don't need that. Instead, so that I don't go 12 hours. So that I don't run so long and I don't get some exercise. I don't eat lunch. I don't, you know, I make unhealthy decisions throughout the day.
 You will set plot in, by the way, and this is an old study, but it's still, I believe, a fantastic study, but they did a great study years ago that showed, especially focused on leaders on Japan.
 If you knew you were going to stay at work for 10 hours, 12 hours today, if you're just new, I'm coming in at 7. I'm going to work till 7 tonight. You actually didn't get any more work done.
 You knew you were here for 14 hours, 12 hours instead of eight hours. So instead, your mind said, okay, relax. Let's get work done. I'm going to be here until 7pm tonight.
 And the amount of work barely changed if at all, and a lot of folks that actually didn't change, they just stayed in the office more. There wasn't that, let me bust things out because it was a, you know, more,
 relaxed environment while at home. What do we have? We have a more relaxed environment. So instead, yes, we want to make sure that you are busting your butt for the hours that you're getting paid for, but interestingly enough, if you will block time.
 So I'm going to work for this amount of time and then I'm going to take a legitimate lunch. I'm going to go outside. I'm going to go, you know, there's a restaurant down the street. I'm going to go to the park. I'm going to make a lunch and go to the park. I'm going to do something and disconnect from my work.
 And then the great thing happens. You get some of that rest. You get some energy back. Your brain gets to stop sizzling a little bit. And then when you come back, you're slightly refreshed. Let's kick into the next block of time. Now I know,
 and I'll a lot, and it'll either have that, you know, that time frame that they shut everything down, have big lunches, take nabs, all that kind of stuff and come back and do work again, right?
 So if I will do this and I will set that block of time and then set the next block of time saying, okay, I'm going to work until 5 p.m. Whatever.
 I need to say, what is my family time? If I don't have family, okay, well, then do I have other outside interests? It seems silly to think that I need to schedule my outside interests, that I need to schedule exercise, that I need to schedule
 going to the movies, which just I thought, gone, that was fantastic. It seems kind of strange that I would have to do that, but when you don't work at home and you work at an office and you're driving to that office, then when you're leaving, like you were talking about earlier, that decompression time also helps me to go, okay, what am I going to transition to?
 But now that I'm at the house and everything is here, assuming I don't have family, then there's not a whole lot to transition to, right? I might just transition into something else right here at the house, I might just keep working.
 I might be making it very lazy, so instead of it being in eight hours a day, it's becoming a 12 hour day. Now, we'll start that being said, now let's throw family in there.
 Now sometimes compartmentalizing your time slots, you are going to find, you know, for some people, if you're able to set up a home office until the kids, hey guys, you do not, you do your schoolwork, you focus on this, you do not disrupt mom dad while we're doing these hours, then set in a specific amount of time.
 We're working this long, you need to be taking care of you, coloring, doing whatever, doing your schoolwork, you know, assuming that your kids are able to take care of themselves otherwise it's strange that you're doing a full time job with kids that can't take care of themselves.
 All a whole lot of assumptions in here, and then break it up, so maybe you don't work for our straight for your work, maybe you work an hour and a half, you come out, you spend 15, 20 minutes with the kids 30 minutes with the kids, you come back in, you do another hour and a half.
 You have to set things up in these boundaries, like you're talking about earlier, of saying, I have to have this time, so I can have this next time with you, or so I can have this next time that we're going to go to, you know, take your sister to our soccer game or so that we can do, you know, we can have a fun time this evening or so we can have family dinner together, family lunch together.
 As you start to do this, what you will discover is everybody enjoys the together time.
 It becomes now some people like, oh, it didn't work for me, you gotta keep going, it needs to be healthy, maybe the time slots weren't correct, but what you'll discover is the more you work on this and fine tune it, what you'll discover is people enjoy the together times, like when we are doing like a work day out at the ridge, you know, we're working on all kinds of other stuff,
 but we'll come together, throw some burgers on the grill, sit down, have lunch together, have, you know, discussion together, fun times together, and then everybody's ready to get back to doing what they're doing, and we're all adults, right?
 So, you know, the kids involved in that, we're just doing, it's a work day, we're just, you know, joles up here doing coaching calls, you know,
 and we can come together and enjoy that time, and then we go back to work. So, when you train your family that it's okay for you to have those boundaries, that's okay for you to sit up those time blocks and keep in mind, you running for our straight, maybe too much for you, you might need to throw a break in there, work with the family, come back and do it again, you know, make sure you're having those meal times, make sure you're spending that time together, what you will discover is that the kids can do what they're doing,
 hopefully not burned down the house, they can do a lot of stuff on their own, they can focus on their schoolwork, they can focus on playing, you can get the things you need to get done, and then when you come together, it becomes an incredibly valuable time together.
 So, just a couple of ways of just saying, you know, whether you have family, whether you don't have family, making it important to block those times, even if it's just a little bit of a time, you know,
 making it important to block those times, even if it's smaller blocks, bust out what you've got to bust out, you'll discover you'll get the same thing done in eight hours that you were getting done in 12 hours at work,
 and then you get to spend that time with family, your spouse, you know, your Bible study time, studying something else, whatever it is.
 So, that's what I feel like we have seen the best success, especially with people who have families that have to, you know, juggle everything at the same time, putting in good quality blocks, everybody understands,
 and then it makes for really good family time together.
 Yeah, that's great. Now, there's a great reminder, you know, we're talking really about budgeting our time wisely being good stewards, talking about focus, priority,
 even like you were saying about recognizing what your peak performance hours are and making sure you're doing the right things at the right time.
 And you've got a priority for spending that time in the scriptures and in prayer at certain times of the day because that's when it's important to you.
 And then recognizing, you know, for some people out there, I'm more mentally awake at this time or less so at this time and knowing where to put that block of time in, I think we're going to find that we can be super productive and we can have the disconnect that we want, so that we're not taking work home with us, especially when we're working at home, super helpful.
 Yeah, absolutely. And if you think about it, when you make this a structured time and you say, I have to be done by this time, then you will disconnect.
 If you don't set that time block in, what you will find is, is that you will allow that to blur into another time frame or another time spot.
 And then next thing, you know, it's not a clock and you're wondering why you didn't finish up your day of work.
 All right, folks, well, hopefully this has helped you today. Hopefully this has helped you to create those healthy boundaries that you need to make sure, especially if you're working at home, especially if you have family to be able to get the things done for work you need to get done, but also not lose your life in the process, right?
 Not to spend your all your day all your time focused on work, enjoy life, bust it, get things done that you need to get done. I work really hard. My team works really, really hard during the time, so we need to get things done. If there's, if the ox is in the ditch, we got to get the ox out of the ditch. So there's times that we will spend extra time working on things.
 Big key here is don't make it your life that you are constantly working, constantly wearing yourself out, constantly wearing out relationships, forgetting your kids names, they don't know who you are, what you will find is if that's the route you go, eventually you're going to regret it.
 So hopefully this has helped you today, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]