 It's easy to receive the comments, opinions, and criticisms of others as a personal slight or insult.
 But, how can you put a stop to that?
 That is coming up next.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life, and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today we continue to dig into some super practical topics on our series of how to episodes.
 And once again, we are doing a different version where this is actually a how not to episode.
 And joining me from beautiful downtown Bell Possosicely is Brian Alex.
 Welcome to the show, Brian.
 I think I'm going into this series of announcements.
 Did you take that personally?
 Did you feel slid?
 Did you feel slid?
 I'm a little personally.
 [Laughter]
 I don't even like the show.
 You were just like your announcer voice.
 I don't know.
 Why don't you just talk to me like I'm your friend, geez.
 Well, today it's funny because that's exactly what we're talking about.
 Possibly receiving things as a slight or somebody's comments or somebody's opinions or whatever.
 It is quite often that we tend to receive people's opinions thoughts comments personally.
 So you take it from here and we'll dig in.
 So as you mentioned just a minute ago, it's easy to take things that are going on around us.
 And my mind goes to whether I'm driving, which here in Sicily is a challenge sometimes.
 Whether it's something that somebody says or it gets stuck in your mind, the cashier frowns
 and the checkout line, whatever it is, I have a tendency.
 We have a tendency.
 People have a tendency to be subjective sometimes.
 And instead of thinking about what they're going through and thinking about the other person, it's very egocentric,
 very self-centered.
 And you know, so I catch that in my behavior, try to curb that.
 But you know, there are also all kinds of triggers from past trauma from our root system,
 all of that that makes us relive and brings to the surface some of those emotions.
 And so it can be difficult. It can be difficult to stay objective, open, hard and and to respond appropriately in every situation.
 And I'm sure we never deal with that in next level of lives.
 Correct. I mean, that never comes.
 Yeah, yeah, it's funny. There's many times we will go into a next level of life for a strat plan.
 And I need to just make it a standard thing.
 But many times we will go in and depending upon personality style sometimes I will share, hey, listen,
 there's going to be some things in here.
 You might struggle with.
 And when you do get into that struggle, quite often what people try to do is they try to make me their villain.
 You know, there's something that they're losing worth on struggling through.
 And then it becomes an attack on me.
 It's not everybody is as a matter of fact, that's a very small number of people.
 But it does happen from time to time.
 And if I am not focused on what we are doing,
 if I didn't know the things that we teach, then it would be in credit.
 I mean, we wouldn't actually have a business.
 I would shut it down after the first event and go, forget this.
 I don't need any of this junk.
 And the good thing, and that's, you know, while we're talking about this today,
 is that there are tools and ways of looking at situations to understand.
 It's actually not usually.
 It's not about you 99.9% of the time, it's actually not about you.
 And so what we'll talk about is, what's healthy, what's unhealthy, what does that look like?
 And sometimes what is it like to actually receive quality criticism as well?
 So we're going to dive in all those things when we come back right after this.
 [Music]
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time,
 then you know the number one issue when it comes to business,
 when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having a lack of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life,
 it all starts with having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality,
 and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with.
 Whether it be at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to Chrissacrittle.com/store
 and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your team two day.
 Get it for your family members, two day.
 As you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to Chrissacrittle.com/store2day.
 [Music]
 Alright, so we are back. Brian, what do you want to go first?
 I want to ask you a question, Chris.
 I'm going to do your best not to take this personally.
 [Laughs]
 How can someone stop taking things so personally?
 You know, I have all of my hiccups and foibles and little triggers in all of this.
 So help me help you help me.
 This is where I want to go.
 Oh, it's a funny jury. Help me help you.
 [Laughs]
 I don't know. That's probably a jacked up quote from Jermagor.
 So if you just call it a foible, that gets rid of everything.
 I'm sorry. I'm just struggling with a foible.
 All is good.
 Here's the thing. You have to be able to separate what is quality information,
 what is quality criticism, what is somebody who's trying to help me from somebody
 who wants to hurt me, somebody who's losing worth, somebody who's struggling themselves.
 This is an incredibly difficult thing.
 We just had a great event not too long ago where somebody was struggling with something
 and I just dropped my voice. I dropped my tone.
 I dropped my height because I'm super tall. Just to get down below their eye line and just ask some perspective
 gathering questions, which hurt?
 It's a struggle.
 But the goal was to say, "Hey, here's a thing to walk through if you want to."
 I even asked, "Do you want a gut punch? Are you willing to tackle something?"
 And praise God, that person was like, "Yep, let's do it."
 Because I'm not trying to hurt a person. I'm trying to help them see something that they can fix.
 That is not what happens most of the time.
 Most of the time, we have our opinions.
 Most of the time we take stabs at people, throw barbs at people.
 If I don't like the way that you're doing something or if I feel a specific way because of the way that you're doing something,
 then there's a really good chance that I'm actually going to throw out a barb.
 I might just straight on attack you.
 And because of that, most people are used to that style,
 it makes it incredibly difficult to listen to a guy who's trying to teach.
 A guy who's trying to help, right?
 So we have to work through what is healthy and what is unhealthy.
 If you're struggling with a foieble and I just love that I get to keep putting that word into this episode,
 if you're struggling with something and I can see it.
 The first thing I have to ask is, do you want any help?
 Many times people don't want help.
 So I do this for a living.
 People come to me to say, "Hey, I'm struggling through something.
 Please help me to get through it."
 Great. It's already assumed.
 I don't even need to assume they came to me for help.
 But I can't tell you how many times in my personal life,
 somebody struggling through something and I just start to speak into it
 because I have something.
 I can help them with.
 And then I have to stop myself and go, "I'm so sorry.
 Do you even want to know this?
 Do you even want to hear anything about this?"
 And believe it or not, over the years, there's probably been about half a dozen times
 where somebody says, "No, I don't."
 And it's like, "Great, fantastic.
 Let's talk about something else."
 Because it's not about me getting them information if they don't want it.
 It's not about me trying to help them if they don't want it.
 So if we can remove that piece and just focus on the times that people actually do want to help,
 then what we have to help them see in many times I'll use the phrase,
 "If I'm pressing it on something, Brian, here's this area.
 Are you recognizing that you're struggling with your losing worth in this section
 and it's tied to this piece over here or whatever.
 When somebody takes that personally, a lot of times what I'll do is I say, "Okay,
 how many understand do you feel like I'm trying to hurt you?"
 And what we can tend to get to is somebody going, "Well, no.
 Okay, do you feel like I'm attacking you?"
 Well, no.
 Okay, does this feel like situations where you have been attacked
 and somebody's been trying to hurt you?
 Yes, it does.
 Okay, can you see the difference?
 Can you see that this is healthy and that is unhealthy
 and see how your response is your amygdala in your limbic system of your brain
 is responding the same way because it's appearing to be the same type of pressure.
 If I can help somebody to see that, then they can go, "Okay, this isn't the same situation."
 So when you are there in that moment, you have to ask yourself, "Is this person trying to hurt me?"
 Is this person attacking me? Are they legitimately attacking me?
 Or does this feel like something else I've experienced in my life?
 The crazy thing is when somebody truly cares and somebody truly is trying to help you to get through something
 the pressure could still feel the same.
 So you have to walk through this process of gaining quality perspective of going, "It's not the same. This is helpful.
 This is healthy. Work through this so I can get to a better place."
 So that's if you're working with somebody who's healthy, who's leading you through the process.
 So what do you do the rest of the time?
 What do you do when you have somebody who wants to take you down a notch?
 I do this for a living. There are plenty of people from time to time who want to take me down a who feel like, "Oh, I bet you I could hurt Chris.
 I bet you I could take him down a notch or do with some comments."
 And they're genuinely surprised when they throw out these comments and I just look at them and I say, "Hey, what's your intention there? What is your goal with that comment?"
 And then all of a sudden they realize, "Oh, crap. I didn't see that coming. I was expecting him to respond the way I would have responded, which is loss of worth,
 argue back, fight through something because what are they looking for? They're looking for a fight. They're looking for some sort of
 disunity. They're looking to create a problem situation because they've been able to do it in other people's lives, right?
 So for me what I have to do is try." And I'm not saying that I'm perfect at this. It's a heck of a lot easier when I'm teaching mode because I'm expecting it.
 I'm watching it like a movie. I'm seeing it happen. But you can catch me off guard in my personal life and hit me with something.
 And it takes me a few minutes to walk through and go with it second.
 What is this person struggling with because what they say, "Well, first off is what they set accurate. If somebody is accusing me or something or trying to guilt me if something or whatever,
 fill in the blank, then I have to go through and go, "Is what they're saying accurate?
 Chris, you're being a jerk right now. Chris, are you being a jerk right now? Did you say something that was mean, rude,
 and I'll walk through that process?" And if after walking through it, I believe that that's not accurate, then instead of going on any attack,
 instead of going on taking it personally, which inside I'll take it personally, but I'm having to work through that process in my head of going, "Hold on a second.
 What is this person struggling with right now? What are they experiencing? Why did I just become their target?
 What's happening in their lives?" And instead of having a attack back or having a defensive response or really ripping it apart by pointing back on that they are struggling with something,
 what I'll usually do is just go, "Hey, what are you experiencing right now? What are you struggling with right now? What was your intention with the comment?
 And try and help that person to see that they're choosing to try and land a punch, do something for some reason, and it really has nothing to do with me.
 It has to do with some level of worth issue that they are currently struggling with, whether they feel like things aren't going well in their life,
 whether they're having bad relationships with people, whether they feel like they're trying to prove themselves to me and it's not working.
 Whatever it is, what I tend to discover is there's some underlying struggle that that person is happening.
 If I don't take their comment, their opinion, their barbe personally, then what I can do is actually turn around and try and help.
 I can coach, I can dig in and try and gain greater perspective. Does it always work?
 No, there's sometimes some folks are going to be stubborn. Sometimes some folks, they're intent on I'm going to control the situation.
 I'm going to try and make you feel bad because once I do, I'll feel better about myself, I'll feel more powerful, I'll feel whatever.
 And so in those moments, I'll push, I'll push, I'll push, try to get them to see good quality perspective if they can't, I'm done.
 I'm like, okay, well, you've gotten what you've wanted. I'm going to back out of this conversation because it's not healthy.
 I'm not going to stay in this conversation. I remember multiple times I've had people come up to me and try and set my reality by pulling things that I've said.
 Adjusting it and try and make it fit them. And as they come up, they weave it in this just manipulation of conversation of trying to say that I said something that I didn't say.
 And sometimes when they're highly influential, you can miss it. If they're really good, sometimes it's difficult to see that they've weaved in something you've said and then twisted it, changed it.
 Next thing, you know, you're agreeing to something that you actually didn't do or didn't say. And so there's times that I'll have to, I'll be listening to somebody say something and I'll be, I'm sorry.
 Could you repeat that? Well, you know, when you said this over here, okay, that's not actually what I said. Well, yeah, it is.
 No, I thought I said this over here. You're changing that to say this. Well, but I mean, it's the same thing. No, it's actually not. And what I've discovered is sometimes some folks want to feel so good about themselves that they will try and twist things that I'm teaching.
 You know, take a lesson that I'm teaching, they'll try and twist it into something else to align with what they want to hear is okay. When I push back, push back, push back, push back. Well, unfortunately, what it happens is they will have a tendency to have to fight even harder to where I will put up the healthy boundaries. I'm sorry.
 If you want to talk through this, if you want to hit, you know, accurate stuff, then I would be glad to do that. But for right now, this is an unhealthy conversation. And I'm going to actually step away from it because I don't need to be here anymore.
 So if you want to change that, if you want to have a healthy conversation great, but right now what I'm seeing is you're trying to set my reality to say that I said something that I didn't, so that it fits something that you want.
 And unfortunately, unfortunately, I just, unfortunately for me, I don't want to be part of that. So let me know if you ever want to talk about this in a more decent way.
 It is amazing to see how people just get shocked and stunned in that moment of, well, I don't know what to say. I don't know where to go.
 And sometimes they'll just continue on. I'm like, no, no, no, I'm sorry. I'm literally done with this conversation. I have no desire to continue on with this. If you want to change tone, if you want to recognize the things that you're saying great, but I'm done.
 That allows me, you know, I'm the teacher, I want to help, I want to help this person to see, you know, what they're struggling with or what they're struggling through or what they're trying to do.
 And if I continue, then it goes from being a teacher to me just wanting to be right. Well, it's a waste of time. So instead, obviously this person's not learning. They're not getting anything from this.
 If I continue, then I'm going to start stepping into an unhealthy way. Let me just back out of it. If this person wants to struggle with that, they can.
 They can deal with that. If they want to come back to me talk to me about it in a different way, they can.
 But what do most people struggle with? Oh, heck, no, I can't give up this fight. I have to prove that I'm right. I have to be stubborn. I have to be self-centered. I have to keep fighting to try and prove my point.
 And amazingly enough, Brian, I cannot tell you how many conversations I've been in over the years where the person who's fighting to be right actually knows that they're not right.
 But they can't let go. They have to keep fighting. They have to keep battling those are the times that if you're participating in it, it's a waste of time. What are you doing?
 You're just fighting to be right as well. And what is that going to get you at the end? Are you going to be like, oh my gosh, I so won this conversation. No, there's no winning.
 You could win what you're trying to accomplish if you're trying to shut it down. Well, great. You won. Well, then what do you win? You know, just shut down a conversation and you didn't get anything from it. You're still losing worth.
 So it's important to recognize what is the person going through? If I can get in there, help them to see what they're struggling with, help them to see how they're responding to me, help them to see that this is, you know, fruitless.
 This isn't something that they really truly want. They want something else. They want to feel better about themselves. They want help with something. And if I can help them great, if ultimately I can't, then I have to make sure that I set healthy boundaries.
 If I don't set healthy boundaries, then eventually I can start taking it personally myself. And then if I'm going to take it personally myself, I'm probably going to, I'd probably start attacking the the pieces that they're being controlling with.
 Right. If I can attack the pieces that they're being controlling with, then that's going to help them to see crap. I can't get anywhere with this.
 And then that's going to shut it down. And either way, it still didn't accomplish great stuff. It does help them to see that they're doing something. But at the end of the day, now I'm frustrated. They're frustrated. And there's really no good coming from it.
 I know that was a lot of information. Question thoughts comments on any of that.
 No, it's really good. I mean, there's so much in there. And a lot of that was, you know, from the perspective of a teacher. And I'm distilling in my mind as you're talking.
 How does that translate to different situations where we may not have the opportunity to clarify with the person what they what they mean?
 Although that that can be very helpful in certain context in certain relationships. But it sounds like a lot of what we need to do is we catch our reactions.
 You mentioned either accepting or rejecting what's being thrown at us. And there's a sense of objectivity where we actually step outside of ourselves or the situation out of that moment to analyze what's going on here.
 Why am I feeling this way? Why do I want to react to this way? Is that appropriate in this situation? And then we can move to like you're saying to understanding from the indications that we're getting.
 Why are they doing this? And maybe that brings that opportunity. It opens that door to clarify with them and seek to understand and not just to be as we've said for years.
 Not just to be understood by someone to make our own point or to be right to fight, you know, but to understand what's going on with them. And I think we become less ego-centric, less self-centered, less personal and more personable and objective in our interactions with others.
 Yeah, and I want to push back on one piece on there on they being under, not push back. I want to agree with. But before I get to that, the big keys here are.
 If I am taking something personally, I have to ask myself why. Why am I taking this personally? Is it because I'm losing worth in the moment? Is it because what this person said I can't handle? Is it because I feel out of control, which most people when they really take something personally?
 Because I feel out of control, which means that they're losing worth. You have to self-evaluate as quickly as possible. And I always say, what is the red flag inside? Usually it's frustration, it's adrenaline, it's something.
 It's negative, self-talk, it's the desire to attack. Any of those things start to creep up. That is your indicator hold on a second, gain some quality perspective. Why am I struggling? Why am I receiving this personally? Why am I responding to the way that I am? Why do I want to fight? Why do I want to battle?
 If you can catch that inside first of all, then you can start asking the question. And again, quality self-awareness did I do something wrong. Maybe I said something stupid. Maybe I said something.
 Maybe I'm not a victim in this situation at all. Maybe I did something that brought on somebody else's response. There's many times I'll say something and I say it in a way that doesn't come across the way I mean it.
 Let me rephrase that. Let me say this because I'll catch the way you said that. Because in my mind it made total sense. But then I see the person receives it as a negative.
 If you can't get a negative, you can't get a negative. If you can't get a negative, you can't get a negative.
 If I can do those things and I can get to clarity on what I'm struggling with, then I can start going this isn't something you need to take personally.
 What are they struggling with? What's happening with them? Those are the big keys to get to. The other piece I wanted to push on for people is this concept of being understood.
 Think about just the I want to be understood. What am I saying when I say I want to be understood? I'm struggling with something and it's super important that other people understand me.
 That's all about me. The truth is, what if nobody cares to understand my current situation, my feeling, whatever.
 The more that I will seek to understand, the more people will care to understand me. But what we tend to do is we tend to battle to be understood. We tend to battle to be right.
 We tend to battle to not be wrong. And we end up thinking everybody else is messed up and it's not me.
 It's everybody else's fault. I'm the victim here. Everybody else is my villain. When that is totally self-centered and selfish. If I will get outside of myself and go, you know what?
 Quit trying to be understood.
 Go understand people. Because if I want to focus on people understanding me, then I'm all focused on me, which means that I can't be focused on them, which means I'm not caring about what they're experiencing in life or what they're going through in life.
 All I care about is convincing this person that what I'm experiencing is super important, and that's just a waste of time. So spend time focusing on what do other people experience, what do they need, what are they going through in life.
 And what you may find is at some point somebody cares to find out what you're going through in life as well and cares to understand you as well. So if you want the kind of freedom from feeling people are attacking you or you know, if you want the freedom from not taking things to personally, if you want the freedom from
 you know, not being, you know, your moods, your attitudes being affected by something that somebody is saying or somebody is doing, then start with the self-awareness, start with understanding what your desire is, do you want to be heard, do you want to be understood, focus on those things first and then make a conscious decision to start focusing on other people.
 Okay, so as I say that, Brian's connection dropped. So as we get to the very rap of this, that is actually quite funny. I'm taking this so personally Brian Alex, I feel slatter right now. So folks, hopefully this is helped you today.
 Hopefully this is helped you to make quality decisions and how you approach every situation and hopefully this helps you to actually save yourself from a lot of personal language, a lot of personal struggle and hopefully this helps you to have a more peaceful life and healthier boundaries.
 So take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 (upbeat music)
 (gunshot)