 Learn to shift your financial trajectory
 whether in life or business with these three steps
 that is coming up next.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show,
 where we discuss leadership and life,
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 On today's show, I've got our own VP of leadership
 development in the virtual studio, Mr. Joe Forder.
 And also, we're also joined by Mr. Brian Alex,
 our podcast producer, live all the way from Sicily.
 And we're going to get something really fun
 lined up for you today.
 What is it?
 I actually have no real good idea.
 So I'm just going to welcome the guys.
 Welcome to the show.
 We'll have an idea.
 I've got an idea.
 It's the financial trajectory.
 I have an idea.
 I will try to do it.
 The goal is also life.
 Joe is live.
 I can't imagine.
 I'm presently in the past.
 That's true.
 That's what we're being listened to, though.
 I'm hopefully Lord willing a live, but still,
 I'm just recording.
 Yes, yes.
 When this actually plays, hopefully so you're both--
 we're all three live.
 How amazing is that?
 That's what we're all living.
 We're all living.
 This reminds me of a scene from West Wing where we just--
 I can't believe something you mind you from a scene from West Wing.
 It's like we just cracked the code on live TV or broadcasting.
 We just figured it out for everybody.
 So just for the listening folks, because apparently so far,
 this show is just for the three of us.
 Now, that's just what feels like it's just the three of us talking.
 For those listening, we are first off.
 We always say that we are certified dorks because we are.
 We actually have certifications on being dorks.
 One thing that we do, Joel and I especially
 Brian loved it when he was here in the States,
 is that we constantly quote movies.
 Now, from Brian's perspective, he says, we only quote three.
 There's more.
 It's just the three we quote from, have great quotes.
 And one of them is not a movie.
 It's a TV show, it's a West Wing.
 And so Catherine always counts down how fast Joel's going
 to get to a quote from West Wing, the West Wing quote of the day.
 This reminds me of West Wing.
 It's just like, okay.
 No, it's just so difficult, because there's so many details.
 You know from the show and they just constantly keep showing up in life.
 That is just crazy.
 Just crazy.
 Anyway, all right.
 So outside of our entertainment life, Brian, what are we doing today?
 Well, deep so far.
 Again, trying to get us to disagree on something.
 We are, we are going to get to disagree.
 You've got that opportunity today, whether you see it is up to you.
 But we have another three rules episode coming at you.
 If you have listened, God bless you first of all.
 Very clear.
 There's no listening to this episode.
 God bless you.
 But we have, we've been playing around with a little format here a series that we call
 three rules.
 And today's is called three rules for changing your financial trajectory.
 The idea, the name of the game, is that we're going to get to in just a few minutes.
 Three rules.
 And we try to have Chris and Joel disagree or at least help elaborate or tweak the rules as they
 would say it so that we can hear some of the ideation that goes into arriving at a certain
 stance or a certain perspective.
 So let me just kind of, let me kind of speak into the goal is first, Joel and I had to give
 great information.
 Brian's goal is that Joel and I do get out and disagree on something.
 Why not?
 I'm here for the entertainment.
 I'm here.
 They can't see me.
 I've got popcorn.
 I got my soda pot.
 I'm ready to go.
 I'm fight.
 You know, this is what I'm thinking.
 And you know, well, I totally agree with Joel on that.
 Well, I totally agree with you, Chris.
 I'm like, come on.
 Give me some entertainment.
 The funny thing is we did have something I think in Bible study or something where I don't
 remember what I was just an off like normal topic.
 And I was like, oh my gosh, I slightly disagree with that Brian, which is he was here
 right now.
 Anyway.
 So our hope is that we do give you really good information.
 So what do we hit?
 Well, yeah.
 We're going to set this up.
 I'm going to do a bit of an introduction here.
 We can make some comments.
 We'll go to a break.
 We'll come back and we'll hit the three points.
 But for today and the idea of setting a financial trajectory, you know, we're coming out
 of a season locked down and all of this kind of stuff.
 And you know, I'm thinking about our own demographic, the folks that have tuned in and
 listened for years.
 The things that we talk about today may not be so much on the nose, but it's something all
 of us have to consider as we get into the three rules that will make more sense.
 But to set kind of a 30,000 foot view right here, a lot of people, both pre and post pandemic
 report feeling stuck.
 This is just from various news agencies stuck financially, unable to make a change to their fiscal
 trajectory.
 That can feel hopeless thinking, well, maybe I'll always struggle, maybe I'll always just
 be getting by.
 I wonder if this new business adventure will ever be profitable.
 And you know, just listen to some of these stats.
 And again, this may not be our 100% our demographic.
 But I mean, think about the people listening that could feel this way nearly half of Americans
 feel stuck when it comes to their financial situations.
 And that's from as a survey from potential.
 And so how many folks, they just a question for the two of you, how many folks that we run into
 whether in personal side with next level of life or on the business side with Stratplant
 are at least concerned.
 They have financial concerns and they feel stuck.
 Yeah, there's a good number.
 I mean, that we we work with on both sides or lots of leaders that can feel stuck financially
 because they are great at making stuff and products and services, but they didn't want
 to be in account.
 They don't want to live and swim in numbers.
 And so they don't know the information.
 But then the emotional stuff starts to play into their decision making and they start to feel
 stuck.
 I don't know what to do.
 The same thing on the personal life for a lot of people come through.
 And they're not sure what to do.
 They're not sure how to leverage their money.
 They're not sure how to budget their money, control their money, invest their money.
 They don't come from that background.
 They've never been taught or their in relationship challenges.
 Maybe even in their marriage today where both people are on different ages and it's not
 really it's money that's causing them to be stuck.
 It's trying to navigate communication in the relationship.
 Here comes the disagreement.
 Here it is.
 First of all, I'm writing it down.
 I'm writing it down.
 It's being recorded because we're alive.
 It's recorded.
 For God we're lying.
 Okay, it's less of a disagreement and more of a different perspective because I think of who
 Joel is when we're when Joel and I are speaking to people, I spend a full week with leadership
 teams and things like that.
 So when Joel's doing strap-plan and stuff, Joel's coaching one on one, stuff like that.
 And so one of the things and so this is not a disagreement.
 This is a different perspective.
 I'm seeing the frustration of the business owners and leaders that can't get people in the door,
 that are frustrated that they can't hire people, that they don't feel like the folks
 are coming through strap.
 Keep in mind, you have to have a decent level of success.
 It doesn't have to be great.
 It just has to be enough level of success to make it into a strap-plan event.
 They're frustrated.
 The place that they feel stuck is not, oh my gosh, I don't have money.
 Oh my gosh, the pandemic really affected my finances in such a horrible way.
 Believe it or not, a lot of folks have been able to pivot really well.
 A lot of our clients have been able to pivot, adjust, do things that we teach and do really
 well through it.
 The place that they feel like they're struggling is people don't want to work.
 Like it's just ridiculous to see every single client who comes in has the same exact
 problem.
 I'm not able to hire good people.
 Like I'm struggling to get good people in the door.
 We could do so much more if we had good people coming in the door.
 So I don't know if I would consider that.
 Like for me, I don't look at their position as stuck.
 I obviously don't look at our position as stuck.
 We've been debt free for decades.
 We don't have all it.
 But we do too.
 We're always constantly looking for great people and we've got a solid team.
 But I don't know if I would consider them stuck.
 So maybe I'm not hearing it the correct way.
 But the people that I'm sitting down in a strap plan with aren't coming to the table going,
 I'm feeling stuck financially.
 They're going, I'm feeling stuck because I have money to pay people and I can't get them
 in the door.
 And that's one of the things that I'm saying.
 I don't know if you could say that a disagreement.
 No, I, you know, and if all we get to guys is better perspective than I'm content to
 not have argued, it's fine as long as we get.
 Oh, you were linted.
 All right.
 So here's some controversial.
 According to CNBC, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the,
 According to CNBC, the, the, the, the, the, all end all of truth.
 [laughs]
 And legitimacy, 77% of Americans report feeling anxious about their financial situation.
 So even if you're not feeling stuck, blocked, unable to get traction, you probably have some
 stress about finances and maybe even as you're thinking ahead.
 Where am I going to be next year, three years from now, am I on the right track?
 Well, that's, that's what we want to deal with today.
 So I don't want to get too deep into that.
 I want to jump to the, the rules, but I, I'm sorry, I'm, I'm on a too, you're, you're just
 going to, I can feel it.
 I can feel it.
 Hit it, hit that.
 You're going to get a mercy.
 Here we go.
 That takes me off.
 Now, maybe 70% of people who who follow CNBC and BBC, yes, maybe the stat is accurate with CNBC.
 There we go.
 But here's the thing, let's say the stat was accurate.
 World, you know, America wide, right?
 When I come into work, I couldn't tell you the number of, we're hiring signs, I drive
 by.
 You know, just as I was just talking about there was a strat plan, you know, and I know
 Joe saying that with companies in all of the next level, mastermind groups and all that kind of stuff,
 I know he's saying that there too.
 I drive by so many freaking we're hiring signs.
 You know, we've got up at the ridge.
 We, I can't get them the, the company who delivers fuel and not just one company, but multiple
 companies.
 I can't get them to deliver fuel because they can't get people to come and get paid really
 good money to go drive a truck, right?
 Because we see it everywhere and what I do not understand and, and I don't, nobody's been able
 to explain this to me really well yet and I haven't figured it out where are these people
 that use to work, that use to work and get paid, right?
 So if the stat is true that 77% of people are feeling financially stressed or however was
 that it said it's shame on most of you, right?
 Because there's a whole lot of opportunity out there to go and make money.
 You can go get jobs, you could go work.
 But I find so many people that just aren't working, they're not really doing that much, they're
 job hopping or, you know, I don't know what they're doing.
 I guess maybe they're riding mom and dad's couch or something.
 I don't know.
 There's my rant on that.
 Maybe it's the 77% of people who follow CNBC do feel that way, but I'd love to challenge
 that on of those 70% percent.
 How many are actually holding a full-time job, you know, and actually busting it.
 So there you go, there's my rant.
 I think with our followers, we probably didn't lose too many written.
 Push back from Joel before we go to a break.
 Push up back, brother.
 No, no push back.
 I'm ready for the rules.
 All right, all right.
 You're experiencing the same thing.
 I mean, we talk about this.
 You're getting the same thing on the level of the same class.
 Yeah, they do.
 It's the same.
 They're hiring as a major issue and trying to find good people.
 I just wonder, it's like when we say people still, you know, feel financial, stress, or
 stuck, it's like, what do a lot of people mean by that?
 Because it may not be their income.
 It may be all their decision making regarding their income.
 It's a, because they're not budgeting, they're not spending their communication, maybe with
 their spouse as terrible.
 They can't get on the same page.
 They don't know what to do.
 People feel stuck.
 This is an emotional thing.
 A lot of people feeling stuck because of all this chatter and talk about, you know,
 the economy, inflation, potential recession.
 It's a cow's that playing on on people and are people a lot of people struggling with
 fear.
 That's a fantastic piece of perspective.
 So here's our Dave Ramsey plug.
 Go through financial peace university if that's you.
 Yeah, go to go.
 Go, go make right decisions to get your finances in order.
 All right, Brian, where do you want to go from here?
 Well, coming up next, the rules that you need to follow in order to change your financial
 trajectory.
 Freedom, it's so powerful.
 I don't rejuvenate and almost renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So I was very comfortable there.
 That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it.
 It's going to be hard.
 It's going to be even better on the other side.
 For me, it was just a very refreshing and I want to say life giving for me and really was.
 You know, I would go to the next of the life again and probably again and probably again because
 it's so powerful.
 I want you to ask yourself a question, could you hear the sense of hope and freedom and their
 voices just then?
 I want you to know that could be you.
 Look, it's easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns and unhealthy relationships.
 It's going to take some work, but yes, there is hope for you.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of self-awareness
 and freedom that they have or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like
 for you, then head on over to Chrissacordo.com/nextlevellife.
 All right, welcome back.
 Here's how we play.
 I'm going to read a rule and it's associated rationale and then one of you get to kick it off.
 With an immediate gut reaction, maybe you love it, maybe you hate it, we need to modify it,
 whatever fit your perspective and experience in the other can weigh in, agreeing to
 agreeing, however, more points for the more disagreement as you know and the points always
 matter.
 Well, getting into rule number one, they mean nothing.
 They really mean nothing.
 Really nothing.
 Getting into rule number one, I guess we, you know, taking some of the perspective from the
 introduction there, what we need to say is rule number 0.1 something before one is make sure
 that you're working and if you're in a state like Tennessee, Florida, Texas, there are jobs
 to be had and that is rule number one would be find a source of income if you don't have
 one.
 I think that should go without saying maybe it doesn't, but let's get into if that is already
 resolved.
 If somebody's being gainfully employed, working as much as they can, they're busted in it.
 What could be holding them back?
 Rule number one is get rid of the debt, get rid of what's holding you back.
 This may seem really common sense or a total game changer for others.
 Maybe it'll take a change of mind for some people here, but you've got to get rid of the weight.
 You can't move forward onward upwards, well anchored to your past.
 What say you've gentlemen?
 Rule number one.
 Yeah, I mean, I totally agree.
 I mean, it's looking back.
 I used to not think that way until, you know, I met Mary Beth and then met, you know,
 you Chris and Dave Ramsey and all this stuff and really got into learning how to do
 money in a much better way.
 I was the guy who used to always say, it's like, you know, always have a car payment.
 That's just normal.
 Let's just tell that is.
 It's your training and it's your mindset of what's acceptable and what's not.
 But when you get rid of the debt, you all of a sudden have options.
 Because it's, you look at the analyzer decision making, it's like, well, what kind of decision
 making gets you into debt?
 And then if you can't train your decision making, you'll never execute out of debt because you're,
 you will still want that lifestyle that you're like, I want this and I want that and I've
 graduated college now and I deserve this and I want what I, you know, I grew up in my, you know,
 I've a lot of younger people grow up in their parents house and they're used to that lifestyle
 that their parents killed themselves in order to have.
 And that's, they don't think about, well, I'm going to have to start over one day.
 And it's all this training that goes into our decision making that holds us back from
 actually getting solving the debt because you have to get to a place where you're willing to actually,
 you know, sacrifice and say no to a lot of things because you're really after having more financial
 freedom and more options.
 And when you actually don't have that debt, you all of a sudden have a lot more leverage of
 your money and a lot more freedom, you get to actually do the things.
 It's just, can you get to a place where you can delay that gratification or trying to keep
 up with the Joneses or keep up with what your peers are doing and it's being able to really discipline
 yourself that is really what I have found to be the keys here in order to actually even follow
 this role.
 Chris, is that possible from a business perspective as well or just getting original?
 Getting rid of the debt?
 Getting rid of the debt.
 Files and percent.
 We've never had debt in the plumbing group.
 I've been debt-free for decades.
 And I have helped so many businesses and not only that, but I mean, I remember the very first
 church that we went into 20 years ago.
 Is it longer than that?
 Well, maybe not that long, but close to it and just help them to actually head of their finances
 and get their their congregants to go through and get their finance estate.
 And I remember when I was leaving days, geez, 10 years ago, that that church had gotten everybody
 in the church, the congregation and the church was 100% debt-free.
 So it's not just, this concept of you have to have debt and debt is your friend is so ridiculous.
 And people just literally, there's a lot of people who are listening to this right now going,
 "Well, Chris, you just don't understand, you're just, you know, you drank the cool aid."
 I have sat down with businesses that are using millions of dollars of debt to in their mind
 make millions of dollars, right?
 They sit down with their plans and like, "Chris, you don't understand.
 Look at what we're doing.
 We couldn't do this without the millions of dollars worth of debt.
 We couldn't do this.
 We couldn't do this."
 And then I sit down there with them and I go, "Let's watch this.
 Let's start making this adjustment.
 Start taking this much out of your profit and pay towards this debt.
 And then when you make this buy, it's okay.
 Keep using your debt."
 But watch what happens.
 And in this amount of time, you're now doing the same thing fully funded with cash and now all the
 profitures.
 And as I show it to them, I'm like, "Yeah, but that'll take me five years."
 Right.
 And in five years, look at how much more cash, how much value your company will be worth, then
 doing it the way you're doing it today.
 And then I'm like, "Oh my gosh, I've never looked at it that way."
 I have done that with so many businesses.
 And it's just always amazes me how many businesses sit down and just go, "Chris, you don't
 understand."
 Okay.
 Well, we're debt-free.
 When COVID hit, we didn't let anybody know how many companies did not, most of our, almost all
 of our clients that have been following the things that we teach did not let people go,
 they did a great job, they transitioned well, they pivoted, they made smart decisions.
 So for all of those companies out there that are saying, "It can't be done."
 I'm sorry, that's just not correct.
 It can't be done the way you want to do it.
 But there is a smarter way that allows you when things go ridiculously bad, which things
 continue to do that, you're in a better position.
 You can do more.
 You have, like Joel said, "You have more opportunities."
 Debt, robes you of your opportunities.
 When you don't have debt and you have cash, you can do stuff with it.
 So that's the way we've been.
 I've always earned all the businesses debt-free and they do well.
 I love it.
 Debt, robes you of your opportunities.
 Well, we'll put.
 Well, all of you know, all of you too.
 I was in the military once upon a time, in the Navy, back when we had ships with sales and
 ours, and all of that, big drones that they beat and like one Viking.
 Raming speed.
 Yeah, it was just like that.
 That's how I remember it anyway.
 So if we're going to build a little analogy, I'll use a Naval one, just like weighing an anchor.
 You've got to set your sales before you get some traction so that when the wind is blowing,
 you've got those opportunities.
 And so that's rule number two, getting into the second one here is to give every dollar a job,
 put a name on it, put every one of the dollars to work.
 Right?
 Because many times people shy away from dealing with the debt or not tasking every dollar
 with a job because of fear.
 I know this was true for me when I carried debt.
 I didn't want to sit down and look at the real situation.
 So I didn't look at the debt.
 I kept adding to it.
 And I didn't want to get down to the budget, just like you're saying, you're taking these businesses
 through a process of actually analyzing in a couple of years.
 You could be debt free.
 This would all be profit.
 And you could change dramatically the trajectory of your business.
 So yeah, this seems like the logical next rule.
 But guys, what say you give every dollar a job and put every one of them to work.
 Yeah, I think this is going to be the financial piece promo show.
 One of the things that Dave says, which comes from, was it Larry Buket or was it John Maxwell,
 maybe you'll remember Joel, is give every dollar a name.
 So same kind of concept, but the job, what you're pointing out is give every dollar a job.
 If I do not spend time looking at what I have coming in and assigning it a job, I want you to
 go pay for my rent.
 I want you to pay for fuel.
 I want you to pay for insurance.
 I want you to pay for groceries.
 When I do not assign a task a job, a name, however you want to put it to that dollar, then
 what tends to happen is I spend everything I've got in Denson.
 So let's go back to in the front side of the show when Joel was pointing out, people are
 feeling stuck and things like that, or I'm sorry, when I was pushing on the CNBC, quote,
 when Joel was pointing out, maybe they're making plenty of money, they're working hard.
 The problem is is that they're spending everything that they've got.
 It can't get more common sense than this.
 If you make a hundred dollars and you spend a hundred dollars, you have zero dollars.
 There's no trick there.
 There's nothing you could do to fix that.
 You can't change that.
 It doesn't, you know, for so when people are making money and they're surprised that they're
 constantly broke and they're surprised that they can't get ahead and they can't afford
 to pay for a transmission that went out.
 Whatever.
 And they don't sit down and use common sense with their dollars, you just don't get to be surprised.
 Let me say it another way.
 If you make a hundred dollars and like most Americans, and I'm old on this stat.
 So this has been a long time since I've looked at the stat, but I believe most Americans spend
 for every dollar they spend a dollar, $10 or 20.
 I can't remember.
 And again, maybe Joel, remember that stat.
 But let's just say you're spending a dollar, $10 for every dollar that you make.
 So if you make a hundred dollars and you spend a hundred and ten dollars, where are you?
 Where's the point where you get ahead?
 Where's the point?
 And this is what I believe everybody thinks.
 Well someday I'm going to make $200.
 Then I will pay back all of those $10 extra that I spent.
 And here's what we know for a fact as people gain more money.
 What's the first thing they do is, in fact, most raises are immediately spent on new cars,
 new purchases.
 Right?
 So if you get a raise, you get all jacked up excited and then go spend that money.
 You go in it further and it debt.
 Well, I don't know how to make it more common sense.
 And again, it's, you know, Brian, if you ask a question about the business is again, it's the
 same concept.
 We live, I live in our accounting.
 The stuff that Joel's team feeds me as far as information, Katherine, Heather, all of that
 stuff, I live in the accounting making decisions on what we can do.
 We just hired four new people.
 I think Joel, I think that's correct.
 Because we had money to go and hire four more people.
 We're still looking for one more.
 And I live in that place of going, I can do this, pay people, make purchases, do the things
 that we need to do to run the business and out of the money that is ours that belongs to
 Heather and I, we actually give a portion of that back in profit sharing because it's there.
 And we, you know, we share that with the team.
 So that's my take on it.
 Joel, jump it.
 Yeah, totally totally.
 I think some of the things you can see in your examples, Chris, are, you know, it's how you're
 making decisions.
 You know, it's really, I'm going to use the word, smiturity and immiturity.
 I mean, it just is.
 I used to be very immature in my decision making with money and that I had to get better information,
 but I really had the tame Joel in order to say, hey, that's got to wait.
 You've got to not do that.
 Because that's the thing.
 It's like, you know, it's like I was leading people through financial peace university years
 ago in Washington, DC area.
 And I was leading people through that have a bachelor's on debt, a master's on debt and a law
 degree from a DC university and combined debt was hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of
 thousands of dollars.
 But it's that man.
 But when I'm here and I'm killing it and I'm making it, I'll then go back and pay off the
 750,000,000 dollars worth of student loan debt, but you're not looking at yourself at 35 saying,
 what am I going to be willing to sacrifice in order to have the money to actually now go pay
 that because now I'm 35 and I won't what I want.
 And I want to drive what I want to, and I want the house to be what I want it to be.
 I'm not going to go live in some tithly place.
 It doesn't cost me anything.
 How much credit card debt would they normally have?
 Because obviously they're adding debt as they go along, right?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 They'd have a lot as well.
 And so it was just like, man, it was such an massive hole to dig out of.
 But getting control of your money is what this rule is all about.
 It's looking at what you're making and actually assigning names, giving it clarity, putting
 in boundaries and controlling what's actually coming into your household or into your business.
 And it's putting structure.
 Structure is good in life and in business period without it.
 It's chaos and then fear and worry comes in.
 So when you can actually learn, okay, here's the money that's coming in and now let me break
 out every single thing of where money needs to go, including those line items that say,
 hey, this amount is going to be $100 a month or $200 a month or $200 a month.
 It's going to go in the budget to save for a future vehicle because this one's not going
 to last for 80 years.
 Or I'm going to want something different or we have to be able, again, I keep coming back to
 kind of a theme for me and this conversation is, yeah, but it's that, yeah, but Joel, I don't
 want to put $200 to pay for a car that I may need in five years.
 I want to go do this thing that I want to do now and it's like, you know what, I totally
 get it.
 I absolutely get it.
 You can do that with your money.
 It's your budget, but look at the risk that you're assuming when you need that new transmission
 or you need that new vehicle, it's being able to discipline ourselves is such a key.
 I think so good.
 And you know, what's going through my head is how many people because we hear this, well,
 you don't understand though, I only make $26,000.
 Well you don't understand, this is my such, well, you don't understand.
 We've been there.
 I literally, so I grew up poor.
 There was one time in our life, we were rich and it was for a short period of time and we
 went right back to poor, right?
 We were the ones getting government cheese, which by the way, there was a time decades ago,
 it actually tasted really good.
 We were the ones that the church would leave groceries on the front porch, right?
 So I grew up in that situation when I was 18, I could get credit card.
 I went ballistic.
 I immediately went out, got visa mask, kind of American Express, and didn't realize, I paid
 minimums on my cards and didn't realize that you were back in those days, you were supposed
 to pay American Express off completely, didn't do it.
 I sent them a little, I'm like, there's nowhere.
 It says the minimum, I'll just send them 25 bucks.
 Got to take it away from me inside of a VHS store.
 How many of our listeners can remember what that was?
 Like a blockbuster.
 Only it was VHS.
 And I was so embarrassed that 19 years old, I think I was.
 And I was just like, you know what, this is stupid.
 And so immediately I'm like, I'm not living this way, I'm not doing this.
 I thought I had all this freedom and I was going to use debt to my advantage because we grew
 up poor.
 And like this, and I mean, it was an immediate shift.
 And for me, I had to get solved that problem.
 But I mean, I worked multiple jobs to get out of debt.
 I worked multiple jobs to hours and hours and hours and hours, just saving everything I could
 to pay off debt to when I had my first mortgage, which again, it's a debt.
 You know, got that thing paid off within a handful of years.
 I think it was four or five years.
 Working multiple jobs.
 It wasn't until after that that I actually started making really good money.
 So like as Joel's using the example of folks that are, you know, $750 and somebody's
 going, well, I can't relate to that.
 I've only got, you know, a hundred thousand or two hundred or forty five thousand.
 Those people make lots of money.
 And they have lots of debt, right?
 So it's not like it.
 It's different for somebody else because the numbers change.
 If you're making bad financial debt decisions, you're going to be stuck no matter what
 no it's ends about it.
 Yeah, love it.
 I love the perspective guys.
 The emotional part, the maturity part, and just the decision making part.
 And willing to to suffer a little bit.
 If you can say it like that in the short run so that long run and we're talking about trajectory,
 we're talking about destiny changing.
 You're going to have to sacrifice a little bit in order to get there.
 Yeah, and let me just say the passion, you know, if I sound excited, if I sound frustrated,
 it's because we've watched so many families get hurt and people struggle like crazy.
 So it's not a judgment on all of our listeners who have debt.
 It's not going, hey, you're just stupid.
 It's going, there's a better way in my gosh, if you'll just trust us.
 If you'll just trust us, that's the passion that's coming out is when people do change.
 And especially military folks, by the way, which have a different, you know, you're
 pulling that out, they get out of debt faster because one discipline is a big thing.
 But also they have better opportunities, you know, housing and stuff like that.
 And you just, well, they get into that faster too.
 They get away faster too.
 Yes, for the form of military, I mean, they are targeted targeted and you're, you know,
 like you're, you're saying as soon as you turn 18, a lot of these guys, I was one went into
 the military signed up when I was 17.
 So I turned 18.
 I was in and targeted and got a bunch of credit cards and got a bunch of debt, just like
 you did, but when they turn on that mechanism of self discipline, willing to sacrifice and the
 short run to win in the long term, they can get out and so can you.
 If you're listening, so can you.
 Financial peace university is a great tool to use if you're needing that inspiration and somebody
 to walk through that process with you.
 It is an fantastic tool.
 So that said, put a cap on rule number two, coming up next, the third rule you need to follow
 in order to change your financial destiny.
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here.
 I'm the vice president of leadership development on Chris's team and I oversee our next
 level mastermind business coaching program.
 Most business owners and leaders like a clear path to succeed in business.
 They question whether they're making the right decisions, if they're focusing on the
 right things to really grow their business.
 If this is you, you need a coach in your life.
 Coaches help you make better decisions, navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively and grow your
 business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue
 and an average of 138% increase in net profit and regain hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3.5 years simply because of the results they get.
 So if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been
 wanting, then visit Chrisacordo.com/mastermind.
 Again, Chrisacordo.com/mastermind today.
 And welcome back guys.
 Here we are, rule number three, done, done, done.
 We've had great discussion, great perspective, very little abrasive, you know, aggressive.
 I'm looking for disagreement, but I'm happy.
 This is fine.
 We've got some good perspective here.
 I'll be satisfied with this so far.
 We'll see what we can do here.
 This one, we've got a little bit more nuance here.
 Hopefully more room to push and shove.
 We're inviting push back.
 That's what we want.
 The other day I told Joel to push back and his own peril.
 This is what we want.
 And what push back.
 So I pushed back on Brian's shirt because I thought he said a peril.
 And I was like, what are you talking about?
 A peril.
 A peril.
 American a peril.
 Your own peril may not be apparent to you, but this is what we're talking about today.
 Rule number three.
 So you've removed those anchors, you've weighed anchors, you set your sales, you start to
 get some traction, you're moving.
 But what do we do to pick up a little momentum?
 Is it time for a second job change jobs?
 And we've got an episode coming up in the next couple of months about changing jobs.
 How do you know when to quit when to start something new?
 Maybe it's time to launch that new business side hustle, new product.
 Maybe you need to deliver pizzas at night.
 Whatever that looks like that kind of thinking.
 Here's Rule number three, gain some new momentum and fast track the progress you're making.
 What do you guys think?
 Yeah, well, I agree with that.
 Just from personal experience and helping a lot of other people.
 I remember when I finally got just pissed off enough about my financial situation, I was standing
 in Mary Beth's apartment.
 So Mary Beth's my wife for those who listen and you don't know that.
 I was standing in her apartment and I was a single dude living in Tolahoma, Tennessee.
 I had great income.
 I had a super low mortgage that I was paying.
 And I was paying off also my stupid BMW that I bought.
 It was the dumbest financial decisions I've ever made because I had to pay off ultimate and
 decided I really want to get a BMW because it was my dream car and it turned into kind of
 I love the car.
 Kind of a nightmare car because of the payment I was now living in and I'm standing in her kitchen
 and I'm wondering where is all of my money and I finally got pissed enough.
 And when I'm my personality type is that when I'm done, I flip a switch and I'm like,
 now I'm done.
 Now I'm ready to do the thing.
 Whether it's kill something or go and create something once I'm there I'm there and that
 emotion is powerful because I make the decision I'm done with this.
 Now I went home and roughed out of super easy budget for me.
 Started getting money under control.
 I paid off the BMW and I'm super fast a man of time.
 Mary Beth and I stopped going out and spending as much on expensive dates which was great for
 her because she was always concerned that she would never be with this guy because he doesn't
 do money correctly and she got herself out of tens of thousands of dollars of debt.
 Now she's attached herself to this new boyfriend that's not very smart with money and says the
 things like I'll always have a car payment.
 So once she saw that change in me that was hoped for her and nothing's ever been the same
 with money as I got out of debt, cut off the credit cards, cancel them.
 It was all this intensity and emotion to be like, I have to now switch this and now all
 of the sudden I've got a whole bunch of money which then I started now in the future could
 say about for an engagement ring and all that kind of a thing and pay cash for everything and then
 funny enough Mary Beth's.
 She's like, it's funny enough I literally sold my that home and told her I sold it the day
 before we got married and we literally got married debt free.
 Had no if we rented a place up in Mon Eagle to Tennessee and started debt free we cash flowed
 her master's degree after that everything was cash flowed after that and it all came
 from that intensity in the emotion and the momentum that you're talking about.
 But that's not possible with businesses is it Chris?
 No not at all and it's only possible for Joel and Mary Beth.
 Nobody else could ever do this.
 Yep.
 Yeah, you don't bring emotion into business at all ever.
 That's right.
 Yeah, it's the softball spike.
 Oh gosh, good insight, you're going to say,
 it works both personal and business.
 I think when you listen to Joel's decision, it was a common sense decision.
 It was a he's an on a Joel forner just said pissed off on the air.
 I love it.
 I don't even think I've ever heard Joel forner cuss.
 He just said pissed off.
 That's fantastic.
 Is that a cuss?
 No, no, no, no, I just don't even ever heard you say pissed off, especially on the air.
 That's for sure.
 I love I say it all the time.
 We are alive.
 We are alive.
 I didn't realize when I moved to the South.
 Take it back.
 No, that's not possible.
 So here's the thing.
 I think two things.
 One, Joel just covered the, you know, bust in your butt.
 I, there's one of the fastest things that we did was sell crap.
 People don't want to get rid of stuff.
 Oh my gosh, you've got money sitting there, sell it, get rid of it, you know, and make
 a great decisions.
 Stuff that doesn't matter.
 If you've got something that is an incredible emotional attachment, then I would probably, you know,
 I'd question that.
 Why am I so emotionally attached to this thing?
 Is it something that I should be emotionally attached?
 But there are times when you look at stuff that you have around the house, if you started
 selling that stuff, you would be amazed at how much money you would make.
 And sometimes selling your cars the right thing because you have so much on it.
 What we've advised people in the past is, you know, you can sell your car for 25 grand get rid of,
 you know, a lot of the debts and then take a smaller loan for a $5,000 car.
 Well, it's still debt.
 Yes, but it's not a $25,000 loan.
 It's a $5,000 loan.
 We're working on this.
 Get this thing going, get rid of it, right?
 Sell stuff, take many jobs.
 Yes, absolutely.
 When it comes to business, it's the same kind of concept, right?
 You have to understand if you are sick and tired of being behind and always having the business
 debt, then you've got to start asking the question, what are you going to do differently?
 What are you going to do to get rid of this debt?
 Take a look around.
 Do you need everything that you own in the business?
 Do you need everything that you have?
 You know, I've helped some people look at an expansion on their business like Chris, there's
 no way I can possibly do this without buying more land, putting up a building.
 Really?
 Can is there any empty buildings in your town that you could go rent for a while?
 Yeah, but that'd be money down the drain while you're making lots of money not paying for
 that mortgage?
 Oh, wow.
 Yeah, that's true.
 Yeah, go rent something for right now.
 If this expansion is going to work, take the profit, put it in a new building and pick
 cash for it, right?
 But there's plenty of people even with business, right?
 You know, I mean, there was a time we went there.
 We were selling old computers.
 Well, like, well, we don't need this.
 Let's sell stuff.
 Let's get rid of stuff, right?
 We've got stuff here.
 Let's pull some money back into the business.
 We didn't need the money.
 We just didn't want the stuff sitting around and we couldn't do anything with it.
 So yes, you can do it with business, absisting, and literally, you just have to get to
 a place where you ask yourself, how tired I'm, how pissed off am I with my current financial
 situation.
 Am I done being, you know, being stressed out?
 You know, the things that stressed me out when it comes to finances in our business is making
 bigger decisions, ooh, can we do that?
 Can we do something different?
 And it doesn't stress me out.
 It's a, you know, when I'm looking at the leadership and I'm going, hey, guys, you know, we
 have money, you can go hire more people, go hire more people.
 Our question is, you know, how many?
 Not, we can't afford anybody else.
 We can't do anything else.
 We can't pay for this thing.
 So when you have money, you have options, right?
 You can do stuff with it.
 So yes, you can absolutely do it in business.
 You've just got to get to the point where you're tired of it.
 You're done being this way.
 You don't want to do this.
 And so for example, we're looking to build an up at the ridge and bring the business up here.
 And everything that we are doing is within our wheelhouse, can we afford to do this?
 What's it going to look like?
 What's it going to cost us?
 There's no debt going into it.
 There's not even a consideration.
 If it gets beyond what we can afford or believe that we should pay for something and our goal
 is not to go ridiculous, but our goal is to, you know, make a nice place up here to bring
 retreats and hopefully the next level leadership level event and strap lands and next level
 lives and all that stuff, it's within what we can do.
 That's it.
 Period.
 Nothing is going beyond that.
 There's not even a consideration of, well, if we just want to get a big loan, we can
 build a whole bunch of stuff right now and be done with that and then just pay out the loan.
 Nope.
 If we can't afford it, we're not doing it.
 It's interesting to see where we are with inflation.
 It's interesting to see where we are with the potential downturn.
 It's interesting to see, you know, the housing markets.
 When people are going ballistic, getting into debt, thinking that everything is going to
 be fine, you know, they've got an out through bankruptcy or whatever.
 And then things turn and they realize how painful it is, how stressful it is, how difficult it
 is on their relationship, their marriage, you know, all that stuff, they don't think about
 those things.
 They just think, oh, we got the stuff that we wanted now.
 And again, pointing back to something Joel talked about at the beginning of the show, we so
 want more.
 We want what our parents had took them 30 years to get it.
 We want what other people have around us and they're the ones that are willing to go
 bust it and, you know, work multiple jobs.
 And so we just put ourselves in these stupid situations and don't count the cost.
 Now one last thing I will say, because I don't want this to sound like a confusing message,
 because one of the things that I do push back on is the hustle concept.
 Not hustling.
 I think everybody should find its own that they're hustling for something if there's
 something important to go out there, definitely go after it.
 The concept that I push back on is this constant concept that you have to be up at four
 clock in the morning, going until 10 pm at night and you're not spending any time with your
 family or wife or kids have forgotten your name all in the name of money.
 That I push back on like crazy.
 So you know, I did that doesn't mean I don't think you can't go out in a hustle.
 That's not what I'm saying.
 It doesn't mean I don't think you shouldn't go out and spend some time bustling it.
 What I'm saying is, is when you're losing your family, this is a really stupid concept.
 I you've spent too much time hustling.
 Now, let me turn that on the Hey get out of debt.
 There is a level of time that I really believe you should pull the family together and say,
 Dad is going to go what bust it.
 Mom's going to go bust it.
 We're going to do some stuff to get completely out of debt because when we are out of debt,
 we're going to have way more options and opportunities.
 And we can do whatever we want to at that point.
 So we're going to bust it working multiple jobs.
 We're only going to do so many hours a week.
 And then we're going to spend our family time together and you know, make sure that you're covering
 your basis.
 But I do believe that that is an opportunity for you to go get rid of a ton of debt.
 I have not had debt for decades.
 I can do whatever I want to.
 I can pick up and go somewhere.
 I can go on great vacations.
 I can buy stuff if I want to.
 And I spent time bustling it getting debt free.
 So I just want to make sure that message is not confused.
 Yeah, that's great.
 As we start to kind of wrap up here, I want to underline the emotional element.
 I mean, that for me is kind of the takeaway, just listen into you guys talk because we started
 with the idea of people feeling worried, anxious, stuck, frustrated with where they're going.
 And you know, both of you kind of highlighted that sense of decision making, you know,
 and the idea of bringing that emotion to bear on your decisions and using it in a positive way,
 I love that there is hope here.
 And you know, so so much of the time we look at, okay, emotions come after the decision making.
 And they can follow that.
 And this is this is a great way to illustrate that just in what we've been talking about today.
 But dumping the debt, the things that are weighing you down, you know, learning to discipline and emotionally
 discipline ourselves with the spending.
 And then from those things, there is some momentum, emotional energy.
 And you know, just like Joel, you were saying about how you took that anger of, I'm just,
 I'm sick of being stuck here.
 And you channeled that towards.
 And just like you Chris, I remember your story.
 You know, I was there 20 years ago.
 And, and I remember that hustle in order to knock it out because you're tired of it,
 holding you back and you're tired of feeling stuck and frustrated and worried all the time.
 And, and, but then there's a joy and a freedom and just a liberation that comes after that,
 it is possible that you can go from stuck and feeling broke to liberated and free
 and gaining momentum towards the financial destination, the financial trajectory that you want
 if you will follow these proven steps.
 Love it, guys.
 And go through financial peace and diversity.
 Get your butt in it.
 Just, you know, if you're telling yourself you don't need it, you do.
 It's just like next-level life.
 Every single person needs to go through.
 Every person needs to go through financial peace and diversity.
 Make it happen.
 Yeah, well, the final thought here from me is that if you learn and you practice managing $20,000,
 $30,000, $40,000 of income, it's, is if you learn to practice managing that well,
 you will then be ready for a hundred thousand or two hundred thousand or five hundred thousand or more.
 I think it's a good way to look at it is that we're practicing learning how to do money.
 And many of us did not come from that background.
 And a lot of that practice is the practice again of managing ourselves and being able to really
 tame that those selfish desires that we have will make all the difference.
 So true, so true.
 Good stuff.
 All right, gentlemen, thank you for joining me again.
 I appreciate it.
 Great job.
 Great discussion.
 Hopefully this has helped you today and hopefully you are hearing our hearts.
 Again, everything that we do is in an attempt to help everybody we can.
 As many people as we possibly can.
 So hopefully you are hearing if some of this stuff is hitting you and you're just like, well,
 I still like my dad, I still like, okay, that's fine.
 Maybe just test out the things that we're talking about.
 Maybe just give it a try.
 And maybe just try a little bit and see what happens.
 What we can promise you is we're on the other side of that and have been for quite a while.
 And man, it is a joy.
 So take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, change
 your financial trajectory and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]