 How your business processes might be holding your capacity captive.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Maybe you've heard it said before, but it bears repeating.
 Repetition breeds confidence. Repetition, practice, and process.
 All breed a kind of familiarity in self-confidence.
 And this is both a superpowers, as well as in the Kielis heel.
 And then we're going to kind of dig into that.
 So here's what I mean.
 Your business processes once learned in familiar can either catapult your business to success
 or make it stagnant and eventually suffocate it to death.
 I think there's plenty of people out there that understand both sides of that,
 but probably a lot of folks that have a lot of entrepreneurs, the business owners,
 that kind of understand the second part of that being stagnant, not understanding why.
 So we're going to dig into a bunch of that, but we're going to do this in two different parts.
 And the first part of this episode, we're talking about how healthy business processes can set you and your team up for success.
 And the second part, we'll take a look at how unhealthy processes can create rigidity,
 inflexibility and more bitty that can hold your business back.
 These limiting factors are causing your business to crawl instead of run.
 I know that there's a lot of folks out there that are going exactly.
 I've experienced that and unfortunately sometimes when you experience some of that,
 you miss out on how important it is to have the right processes in place.
 So just because a process may be holding something back doesn't mean that all processes need to be thrown out the window.
 We're going to get to all of that.
 This is especially true in serving your clients and creating a great customer experiences.
 So when we come back, what healthy processes look like and what they'll add to your team.
 Hey folks, a couple years ago I was visiting with a client and the CEO said to me,
 "Cris, we're not going to hit our goal."
 I asked him what he meant and he said, "We're going to miss our three year revenue goal coming out of
 the contract plan by a few months." I didn't realize it at first that he was having a little fun with me by saying they were about to triple their company in less than three years.
 How freaking awesome is that.
 Folks, these are the kinds of results that businesses get by coming through our four day contract plan events.
 On average, we find two point one million dollars worth of revenue in the next 12 months that the company was not planning on.
 This event is for all size businesses.
 If you're small, medium or large, it works for every single business because it's not industry specific.
 It's about gaining all the information about all the things inside of your business that are holding you back from success
 and then giving you a plan and a process on how to walk that out and be successful in your business.
 By discovering the things that are holding you back, it helps you get to all of those goals that you've been planning on for a long time.
 So if you're ready to get the perspective you need to solve what's holding you and your business back, so you can grow faster than you need strap plan.
 To learn more, go to Chrissacordo.com/strapplan.
 That's Chrissacordo.com/strapplan.
 Alright, the power of process. Why are we talking about processes and systems anyways?
 Well, as author and habit expert James Clear puts it, you don't rise to the level of your goals.
 You fall to the level of your systems. Folks, I'm telling you that is absolute truth.
 That is something that we see all the time and decades of leading businesses to being successful.
 One of the things that we discover all the time is how the lack of quality systems causes businesses to fall.
 Now, as a business leader or owner, here's the underlying truth that you've got to understand.
 If information and communication are the lifeblood or nervous system of your organization,
 then process and procedure are its spine, giving it structure, giving it stability, allowing blood flow.
 All of those things have to be in place. They just need to be correct. They need to be good.
 They need to be operating the way that they're supposed to.
 Processes touch all aspects of business.
 So especially where there's a need for setting goals. You've got to have processes.
 Now, for us setting a goal, looking out and saying in 90 days, I want to accomplish this thing or this stuff, right?
 Just saying it is not a goal. It's a dream.
 If you're going to put something to it, we call it strategy from our aspect.
 Those steps of getting to that goal. If you're going to be successful in that goal, you've got to create a good process that gets you to that goal.
 Also, it helps out with expectations, both internally and externally as well.
 So if you think about it, if I'm looking at your business and wondering if you can do something successfully for me, if I should come spend money with you,
 if I don't see that you have good processes in place, good structure in place, if I see things falling apart,
 probably not going to come and spend money with you. I can't tell you how many times we've had vendors that we go to, you know, sign a contract with them on something and we walk through their process and we see things falling through the cracks.
 Or they do a good job selling us and we get to our very first process with them when we're going to do a bunch of different processes and immediately we have a problem.
 Right, we can see that they're not covering things. That is important. If you want my money, you have to show me that you have the ability to produce the things that you're promising me that you can produce.
 Another way that it touches all aspects of business is on down to the accountability, the repeatability, the growth of the business. Listen.
 A big piece. We call it the accountability gap. A big piece of why so many businesses struggle is because they don't have the pieces in place that is helping somebody get from the task to the result.
 A lot of times that piece that's missing is a quality process that gets in there. Now, as we go through this, here's what I want you to know.
 I am fully against processing the living daylights out of stuff so that a monkey can do it.
 If your people do not have to think to do the processes, then some's got to go, right, because we don't want to process something and then pay people money to do something that a monkey could do.
 We want people to be able to use their brain power to be able to make decisions to own stuff, right, to take responsibility for stuff. If you have the process to a crazy extent, then you either don't have the right people or you're looking at your product or service in the wrong way.
 So in context of processes touching all aspects of the business, let me give you a few examples from our point main culture. Now, number one, we address process strategically with organizations.
 I kind of just shared this with you a little bit before, but as we lead owners as we lead leaders through planning events through strat plan, we come back to their processes time and time again.
 Two big pieces that come out of almost every single strat plan is processes. They're either not done right. They don't have the right ones. They're not optimized whatever it is, but it's there's always always, always an element of processes that are holding companies back.
 I think I have seen one time that a company was like 95% there because they were so processed driven. But what we did find is that there were things that needed to be optimized and there still were a couple of things missing in that equation as well, right, almost every single company that comes through
 plan is struggling in the area of processes. Even when there have some things that are working well, they've got some things that are doing good.
 What we will find is that they're not optimized, they're not up to date, they may not be documented, people may be doing them different ways.
 There's ones that we haven't gotten to, things we're not even thinking about that need to be processed all kinds of information. Also processes play a part in assessing failure of any kind.
 We have a process to resolve the issue and make sure we don't repeat the same mistakes time and time again. Now what do we do? We have a, you've probably heard me talk about it. We have a five step process. When a problem happens, we don't throw people into the bus.
 We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem. We have a problem
 We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't have to do that. We don't
 And a lot of times we don't stop and recognize that we need a proven process or a great process to help us make sure we don't get to the fire in the first place. What if I was keeping happening?
 So if we can solve those, that is great. Number three processes involved when training our teams to create workflow. So using programs like a son, we are big a son of fans. I really wish.
 And I think that's a great thing. We have a lot of things to do with the process. We have a lot of things to do with the process. We have a lot of things to do with the process.
 So leaders can speak into their progress. These are things that we teach in killing the leadership crazy cycle. It's important to have these processes in place. Well, if you utilize the right tools, then that's easy.
 My team lives in a sauna. They are in it all the time. A lot of our clients are in a sauna all the time. The way that we lead a lot of our clients is through a sauna on helping them to train teams or do strap plans or the big goals that they're focusing on whatever it is.
 So it is a great place for you to put your projects to put your meetings. You know, for us, our leadership team meeting, our staff meetings, our marketing team meetings, our live event meetings, all those things exist there.
 And the people inside of that meeting have access to those projects. They dump the things in there we need to talk about it. It's great for communication. It's great for setting up processes.
 But it's also a phenomenal to do list. Now listen, I don't live in a sauna. Why? Because I'm usually in events.
 And the one thing I try and teach a lot of you business owners and leaders is to get out of the task side of what you're doing. Let's kill the leadership crazy cycle lead people. So for me, my time is spent between leading people doing events, doing next live live strap plans, next level mastermind retreats next level leadership live event.
 All the show, all the stuff that I'm doing, I don't have a ton of tasks on my plate. However, I still have things I've got to get done. I still have a to do list.
 So for me, while people aren't assigning me tasks and throwing things my way, I'm still dumping my to do list in there.
 My to do list for point me, my to do list for other companies, my to do list for the rich, my to do list on personal things that I need to get done and being able to prioritize all that. So we do these things because it gives you a great and by the way, let me make sure you understand the sauna is way bigger than it's a do list. We do complete full strap plans projects everything in there.
 I'm just saying even in the smallest aspect of it will help you in your day today. Now I get it all the time when folks come to us and they say, you know, I thought you had a much bigger team looking at what you're doing because we create processes.
 We put things in place. We create structure in our business that allow our team members to get a ton done. A lot of times in strap plan what we find is people are paying for a lot of team.
 To not get a whole lot done when you don't have good processes and there's a whole bunch of other stuff. Listen, this is just one aspect of it. There's a whole lot of other things that we will find.
 But a lot of times companies are paying for twice the amount of people.
 People like I thought you're like 50 people. Nope. We're like a dozen or more. We get an or still hiring more trying to get more people in.
 But the thing is is the way that we have structured the business and the way that we do our processes and the way that we do our accountability and the way that we lead people to success and the way that we put the right tools and all the things that we teach you guys.
 Every team member is highly productive, highly productive, not running themselves into the ground, not stressed to the max, not ruining their life with their family. They don't work.
 You know, 24 hours a day, they're just incredibly productive. Communication is great. We get a whole ton of stuff done.
 And when things don't go well, we fix it. We solve the problem. And a big piece of this is making sure that we have great processes in place.
 So what you're hearing me say is that having the right processes, having the power of process is something that absolutely extends to our teams capacity.
 Now, when we come back, my process is so powerful, but often abused and misunderstood.
 Hey, leaders. This is Joel Fortner, VP, a leadership development at Crystal Cardo's company.
 I have some questions for you. Do you as a leader feel like you are caught up in a crazy cycle of stress and task that never ends week to week?
 Do you ever have to deal with tough conversations with team members?
 And you sit at home the next day, the night before worried about how's it going to go? What am I going to say? What are they going to say? Can I think fast enough on my feet? Is it going to be a total failure?
 Are you experiencing culture problems or that stuff that just breaks down trust and unity on your team? Well, if you can relate to any of this, this is a pretty typical leadership story in situation.
 Here's the thing though, it doesn't have to be that way and we can help you solve these things. We can help you become the leader that solves these problems and leads their team to greater success.
 I want to introduce you to the key leaders program. This is an ongoing leadership development program that gives you the lesson track, coaching and accountability you need to become the leader you can become to actually implement what you're actually learning in this program.
 Things fall apart without great leadership and intentionality. If you want to solve the problems that are holding you back from being a great leader, we can help you with this program.
 Get in touch jollycrystallicardo.com.
 So we have implemented solid improvement procedures, checklist and workflow that allow us to maximize our potential and I will tell you what I started decades ago, I realized very quickly.
 I'm not a very high detail person. I'm high enough to cover my butt. I'm in the details enough to keep myself from failing, but I learned very quickly that if I did not put things in place, I didn't force myself to be enough detailed to make sure that mistakes don't happen and to cover things then it was always going to come back and be a failure for me.
 I've been leading people to do so. So from the very beginning, I've been a checklist person. I'm the kind of person who always has I have a little, you know, used to be back in the day would be the big yellow pad and now I've got a small blue lined pad that is with me my pen, walk around, you know, I make decisions.
 I'm writing things down. I have one of the team members noticed during the strap land the other day that I'm always writing specific things down on that sheet because I'm going to come back to it and I'm going to bring it up at something important.
 But while we're having discussions, I can't rely on myself to remember this after four days of intense discussion, right?
 It's something that helps me to remember things that I've got to cover. So I start off with a little line pad and realized very quickly that I needed to do something else.
 So I remember in the early days before Excel existed, I was like, "Lotus, I believe it was if I'm correct on that, I can't even remember."
 But I realize I could start making these checklists and cover my butt. If I put these processes in place, then I could knock things out and get them done consistently strategically, you know, really well.
 Well, I've carried that on over the decades of leading my team to do the same thing.
 So when we do that, when we're using these processes, and I'm not saying go back to and use Lodus folks as I would have said, but when you have great processes in place and you also scrutinize the processes when they stop delivering the results, then you're becoming really successful.
 You're allowing your team to be successful. You're helping your team members to be successful. And what do I mean by scrutinizing while here's a deal? Things change.
 Clients needs change. Team members change. There's all kinds of things that are going to change as you go along. So what do you need to do?
 You need to review and optimize, right? Screwed andized the daylights at your processes, and I'm not saying do this every couple of weeks. We usually want to look at this once a year if we've got great processes in place.
 But we want to go back and review, are these working?
 If it's not working, what needs to be optimized, what needs to change is this redundant. Is it repetitive? Is it no longer needed? Are we following a process that is an important anymore, right?
 Processes give us form and structure to our organization, but it's got to remain flexible.
 What if something changes and you keep cramming down the same process and you've never reviewed it, you've never optimized it. So now you have somebody who's sticking to a process that sucks.
 That's not helpful. That's not making you successful. So a big part of this is making sure that you actually review and optimize these processes. So think about it like going to the carer practice, right?
 You're spying gives you body form, structure, stability, but sometimes it's got to be adjusted and sometimes frequently.
 In order to stay flexible and have good blood flow. Well, if your processes are you don't touch them. You don't do anything about them.
 And five years later, you keep doing the same process and wondering why you're losing money. Now you're not making the same money that you were.
 People are not as productive as they used to be or whatever it is. It could very well be because you've continued to do the same process and not optimize.
 So your processes must be assessed and adjusted frequently. Now again, I'm not saying you need to do this every couple of weeks.
 Usually depending upon the process once a year is a good time frame and if you're doing it well, you probably have a lot of processes that you have to review and optimize.
 But if times are changing, then schedule time to review and optimize. Just take a look.
 You might look at the process and go nothing has changed. I can tell you when we hit COVID.
 That's one of the first things we did first thing we did with our clients is we said no fear. We're not going to have fear. We're not going to go into this fearful.
 We're going to trust God and we're going to bust it. But we're going to take a hard look around what needs to adjust what needs to change.
 And many of our clients and us as well, made some adjustments very quickly. We were flexible.
 We made moves and we did things to make sure that our businesses kept operating that we kept meeting our clients needs.
 And so some processes had to change in that, right? Some things had to be adjusted and then later on.
 Some of those got adjusted back. Some of them didn't.
 I just kind of depend on if it changed the direction we were going with our business.
 So if you want to achieve excellence, then make sure you're perfecting your processes.
 Right? Make sure they're flexible. Make sure that they are in place that you have all the ones that you need.
 Make sure that you're reviewing and optimizing the ones that are already in place. If there's new needed processes, make sure that you're discovering what those are.
 Putting those together and trying to make it as perfect as possible.
 Perfection is not attainable. But if we chase perfection, we can catch excellence. Thank you, Vince Lombardi.
 That's our goal, right? Be excellent. Are you going to be perfect? No, of course, I can be perfect.
 It's going to be impossible for you to be perfect. There's only been one perfect human being. And it sure wasn't us, right?
 But if you are chasing perfection as Vince Lombardi says, then you can definitely catch excellence.
 If you do those things, your team can be excellent. If your team is excellent in your business is excellent, then people are going to want to give you their money.
 They're going to want to spend their money with you to get your product or your service.
 So if you as a leader will assess and adjust your processes whenever you see the warning signs I mentioned, then your team will thrive and your customers will be served with excellence.
 Spend time perfecting your process that'll make a huge difference in your business. Excellent is the goal. Excellent is attainable excellence increases potential.
 Well, folks, hopefully this is helped you today. We will come back with a part two on this discussing the struggles that we see or the things that are really holding us captive when we don't do things and processes with excellence.
 So as always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 (upbeat music)
 (dramatic music)