 Why character counts and how quickly gets discounted?
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 Business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 Hope you are having a fabulous day.
 Today we are talking about character.
 Now, characters kind of like the DNA of your soul.
 It is your mind, your will, your emotions.
 All of these things are responsible for contributing to and creating the components of your complete character.
 So, around here, we say that characters who you are when nobody else is looking.
 Well, nobody is looking at you.
 Who are you?
 We are always, you know, we talk about personality styles.
 If you have ever done your disc profile, if you have never done disc.
 Get over to the website and get it done.
 Leaders make your teams do this.
 It creates so much better communication.
 If you are looking at your disc profile, there is always two sides to that profile.
 There is the natural and the adapted.
 The natural is who you are when you are in your comfort zone.
 When you are around the people you are with all the time.
 The people that you are family, people that you have been with on a consistent basis.
 Or when you are just by yourself, that is who naturally are.
 The adapted is who we want people to think we are.
 A lot of the times or who people think we are.
 A lot of the times.
 So we adapt.
 One we are around people on comfortable situations or work environments as well.
 Sometimes we have to adapt to our work environment.
 So we all spend most of our time in our adapted personalities.
 There is more to it than that.
 I am giving you a quick summary.
 But we spend most of our time in our adaptive profile.
 We can look away that we want ourselves to look.
 We can respond away that we want ourselves to look.
 But here is the key.
 Your true characters who you are when nobody is looking.
 What is that like when nobody is watching you?
 So while that is true, it also bleeds into everything that you say.
 What you do, regardless of who is around.
 Whoever is watching, whoever is not watching.
 So characters who you are, it is no matter who is looking.
 When or where, that is who you are.
 It is arguably probably one of the most important assets in your life.
 Because your character determines how you think and believe.
 Which in turn determines how you speak act in behave.
 So this is pretty important, but it doesn't stop there.
 Your words, attitudes and actions ultimately determine the results you get out of life.
 Let me say that again.
 Your words, your actions, your attitudes.
 Ultimately determine the results that you get out of life.
 Character determines and becomes part of your purpose.
 So it is not by chance that there is a reason that you and I are on this planet.
 Now as a Christian, as a believer, I believe that God has created each of us with a specific purpose in life.
 And I don't love the word destiny, but I am going to use the word destiny to fulfill.
 Which is saying that it is predetermined.
 There is a level of predetermined.
 I am not saying everything is predetermined.
 Please do not hear that the wrong way.
 What I am saying is that when God created each and every one of us, he already had a purpose for us.
 He already created a concept of what he wanted our lives to look like.
 The major part of that purpose is getting back to him and finding him to be our God, our Father, our Supplier, all of those things.
 But there is a level, do not confuse what I am saying.
 I am not saying everything is predetermined.
 What I am saying is that there is a level of our purpose in life that is predetermined by God.
 A big piece of that is it is our purpose to follow him, to be obedient to him.
 So God equips us for our purpose, putting in us all that is necessary to fulfill his mission for us.
 But just like anything else in life, you have to develop those muscles.
 You have to develop those skills, those talents, the resources in the time that he is giving you.
 This is what we would call good stewardship of what he is giving you.
 Right? How do you steward what you have got?
 You have got to work those muscles. You have got to work those skills those talents.
 So if you want to have a good, a successful and even a happy life, then you need to build your character.
 Improving your character is called self mastery.
 And we will get to that after the break. But what you need to hear first is this.
 And this is empowering.
 Character is what makes you unique.
 Now some of you are going well. I don't care about being unique.
 It is something you should at least consider.
 Another some folks who love being unique.
 I don't know one of those people who loves being unique. I don't look to be unique.
 But there is something about being unique that I do enjoy.
 And that is recognizing that God set me up this way.
 There are aspects of who I am that he set up to be unique.
 Nobody else is just like me. Why?
 Because I am so amazing.
 And I did so many incredible things to be unique.
 Nope.
 Because he made me this way.
 So when I look at my uniqueness, I point to him.
 I glorify him.
 Another thing is that it sets you apart from others to be different.
 Again, should your focus be on I need to be different than others.
 That is not what I'm saying.
 If you're receiving this in a very individualistic style, a very individualistic kind of way.
 That's not what I'm saying.
 I'm not trying to say you should be prideful and focused on being different from everybody else.
 What I'm saying is if you recognize that God created you that way.
 And you focus on what he has for you.
 Then that becomes empowering.
 So it's it's particular.
 It's it's like your DNA characters like your DNA.
 It's kind of like fingerprints.
 Your character is different.
 Now what we also want to do.
 And according to the latest research in psychological and neurobiological sciences we can actually do this.
 You can change your character.
 It's not fixed.
 You used to be thought that your character was absolutely fixed.
 There's aspects of your character that you can change.
 Right. And hopefully for the better.
 There's a constant goal for me, my family, our ecclesia, our friends, our team members.
 To grow our character in a more godly way.
 And what does that look like? What does that take?
 So character traits or kind of like your soul's DNA markers such as integrity, persistence, honesty, curiosity and enthusiasm.
 These can all be learned. They can all be shaped no matter what age you are.
 So when we come back, why developing your character matters and how it changes your trajectory.
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue when it comes to business.
 When it comes to family, when it comes to friendships is having a lack of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life, it all starts with having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with.
 Whether it be at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to crissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your team two day.
 Get it for your family members.
 Today, as you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to crissacrittle.com/store 2 day.
 Okay, let's dig into the self mastery part for a little bit.
 So if we look at the dictionary and just go online because I don't know if anybody actually has a physical dictionary anymore.
 I'm hearing Webster's dictionary defines self mastery as the ability to control one's own desires or impulses.
 Now that's good and that's powerful.
 But I actually really like what Collins dictionary says.
 It defines self mastery as the ability to take control of one's life without being blown off course by feelings, urges circumstances.
 Collins dictionary continues to say that condition whereby your body is your servant and not your master.
 Folks, we all struggle with this.
 We all struggle with this.
 We all have been blown off our the course set before us or course that we've set before us because of our own urges,
 because of our own feelings, because of our our circumstances at the time.
 Self mastery is helping you to continue on where you should be going.
 If it is where you should be going, that purpose that God has given you that trajectory that God has given you.
 No matter what your feelings or urges or circumstances are.
 Right?
 So what do I mean by that?
 I'm not saying that you can't, you shouldn't stop or slow down or make adjustments along the way.
 That's not what I'm talking about.
 What I am talking about is how many times have we been moving in a really good direction that needed patience,
 that needed long suffering, that needed the ability to grow and develop.
 And something happens and bam, we move in a different direction.
 One of the things we talk through in next level of life and strap plan is listen, we're putting this plan together for you to go and knock this stuff out,
 make changes in your life, make changes to you.
 But things are still going to happen, things are going to come, your direction.
 You're going to have to make a decision, how do you handle them when they do?
 Are you going to be strong enough to deal with controlling people?
 Are you going to be strong enough to deal with team members leaving because something happened?
 Are you going to be strong enough with torpedoes that just blow up your day?
 If so, then you can continue forward with the plan that's going to make you healthier.
 On the life side, if it's the business, then you can continue forward with the plan that's going to make your business healthier, your team healthier.
 So it's super important to recognize, character is so powerful.
 It can keep us from getting blown off course.
 It keeps you freed up to pursue the God-given purpose in your life.
 If you don't have strong character, then you can't be surprised how many times feelings,
 urges, circumstances, situations actually knock you back.
 You know, Collins calls it blown off course.
 We kind of say it's getting knocked back.
 You're taking two steps forward and you take a step back.
 You take a step forward.
 You take three steps back, right?
 It keeps knocking you backwards.
 Every time you start to advance, it keeps knocking you backwards.
 If you have strong character, then it allows you to really focus on getting over those situations.
 And I think Billy Graham would have agreed with us here on the importance of character.
 He said, "When wealth is lost, nothing is lost."
 Now that might be surprising to a lot of you, but it's very true.
 Okay, wealth is not that great.
 It's not that important in life, right?
 It's not something that we desire.
 It is great to be able to pay for things, but I think you get the...
 You understand what you're saying.
 When wealth is lost, nothing is lost.
 When health is lost, something is lost.
 When characters lost, all is lost.
 When you lose your character, everything is lost.
 So we've learned that character matters.
 It's our unique soul's DNA.
 It determines your destiny or your purpose.
 I should say really, I really do hate that word destiny.
 Sorry that I keep saying it.
 If it's so important, then why does it get pushed aside and discarded so quickly?
 When we come back, why it's so easily discounted and neglected that is coming up next?
 Freedom, it's so powerful.
 I don't rejuvenate and almost renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So I was very comfortable there. That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it.
 It's going to be hard, but it's going to be even better on the other side.
 For me, it was just very refreshing.
 And I want to say life to me and really was.
 I would go to the next level of life again and probably again.
 And probably again because it's so powerful.
 I want you to ask yourself a question,
 could you hear the sense of hope and freedom and their voice is just that?
 I want you to know that could be you.
 Look, it's easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns and unhealthy relationships.
 It's going to take some work, but yes, there is hope for you.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation,
 the same kind of self-awareness and freedom that they have,
 or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like for you,
 then head on over to Chrissacordo.com
 slash next level of life.
 Alright, let's get ready for a little throat punch from Helen Keller.
 Helen Keller says, or sad, I should say,
 "Caracter cannot be developed in ease and quiet only through experience of trial and suffering.
 Can the soul be strengthened, ambition inspired and success achieved?"
 Helen Keller statement, something that she actually lived through,
 agrees with ancient wisdom.
 First Corinthians 9/27, but like a boxer, I buff it my body,
 handle it roughly, discipline it by hardships, and subdue it for fear that after proclaiming two others,
 the gospel and things pertaining to it,
 I myself should become unfit, not stand the test,
 be unapproved and rejected as a counterfeit.
 So if you do not know who Helen Keller was,
 she was some very amazing, amazing woman who was,
 I believe born, maybe it happened when she was a child,
 but blind and deaf,
 and I assume mute as well.
 I don't actually remember that part.
 It's been decades since I've studied Helen Keller.
 So imagine what kind of world it is when you can't see anything,
 you can't hear anything.
 All right. So if she can look at character this way,
 it's the absolute minimum way that we can look at it, right?
 So remember the Collins dictionary definition about character can prevent you from getting blown off course,
 while here in 1 Corinthians 9/27, the apostle Paul is telling us how to shape our characters.
 It's disciplined by hardships.
 Do not let your hardships make you a victim.
 This is something we've been talking a lot about as family.
 We've been talking about it in our ecclesiare church group about how so many times we face hardships and think of them as,
 you know, curses.
 We think of them as bad things.
 And many times we do not recognize that God is trying to refine us through those situations.
 So we really need to pay attention and handle them correctly, right?
 Allow it to discipline us when you go through hard difficult tough times.
 It's okay to struggle through the difficult time, but allow it to make you stronger,
 allow it to make you discipline.
 He's also saying to treat the body rigorously,
 folks, so many of our bad decisions come from our physical being.
 Think about it.
 How many of us are emotional leaders?
 How many of us have addictions?
 Alcohol, drugs, you know, sexual addictions?
 Whatever it is, think of how many people are driven by their physical response, right?
 The physical body is driving so many of their bad decision making.
 Allow your physical body, treat your physical body, get it under control.
 So you make the decisions not your physical being.
 I hope that makes sense and I hope people understand that because there's not a human being who does that.
 Not a human being who doesn't struggle with that, right?
 Whether it's something so simple as emotional eating, and that's really not simple.
 It's a big enough issue.
 To the person who is struggling heavily with drugs or struggling with sexual addiction, right?
 I mean, it's all over.
 So many times we make decisions based on what our body desires,
 and we aren't self-mastering ourselves to keep us from making bad decisions.
 Another thing he's saying is stay true to your principles.
 So discover what your principles are and stay focused on those.
 Right?
 Make sure that you're honoring those.
 So this is self-mastery.
 This is character development.
 This is spiritual transformation.
 And at the same time, here's reasons why character gets counted or gets discounted.
 It matters so much to you, your purpose, and those you impact.
 Sometimes it gets counted because of that.
 Sometimes it gets discounted because of that.
 It requires you to take charge of yourself to master you.
 Sometimes it gets counted many times that gets discounted.
 I don't want to have that character because it's having to take charge of myself,
 having to control me, right?
 It's tough to do.
 It's much easier to slip down the wrong path by not self-mastering, right?
 Well, actually like some of the bad choices I make,
 or I don't have a problem emotionally eating.
 I don't have a problem with emotional spending.
 No, yes you do.
 It's obviously affecting you in a way that you can recognize that you are emotionally eating or emotionally spending.
 Right?
 Yeah.
 So it's something that we need to master.
 Sometimes people are more concerned with not mastering themselves because they actually are enjoying
 the moment process of eating something or in the moment process of spending money,
 only to regret it 15 minutes later.
 It's easier to neglect the hard work that we need to do.
 So quite often it makes it so much easier to convince myself that if I just don't worry about that character piece,
 then I don't have to put in the hard work.
 Oh my gosh, people.
 You know, one thing I absolutely praise my mom as we were growing up.
 We had a mom that made us work.
 My brother and I grew up with great work ethic.
 We were shoveling snow all the time, dropping trees and the summer times, splitting it by hand to sell as far
 or to put food on the table.
 I mean, there was always doing something we never had a problem with hard work.
 We never had that that wasn't even a thought to this day.
 It's tough for me not to be hard at work, right?
 But sometimes people really really struggle with that.
 That's something that wasn't instilled with them and so it's difficult.
 And it also is easier to relax our garden and give up.
 So unfortunately, and this is this is sad.
 For a lot of folks, instead of doing the hard work,
 it's just easier to throw their hands in the air, become victims.
 Say that it's not that important.
 And just allow things to be.
 Unfortunately, what happens when tougher times come along?
 What happens when something bigger comes along?
 And instead of being able to stand and make your way through it,
 it just blows you over.
 So a big piece I want us to focus on is, how do we get tougher in life?
 How do we get stronger in life?
 I praise God. That's another thing that he's been working on us for a long, long, long time.
 It's not looking at our situations and our circumstances that we consider to not be good ones.
 You know, tough ones, bad ones, difficult ones, frustrating ones.
 Something that God's been teaching us for a long time is to look at those situations
 and recognize that they're making us stronger.
 They're making us tougher.
 So if we will stay focused on that, then it will make it a heck of a lot easier when something tougher comes along.
 I can remember at time of me just complaining about a thousand frustrations I was having in a day.
 I was just complaining to God, you know, not mad at God, but just complaining.
 And I felt like I heard God say, if you can't handle this, how can you handle something tough for a stranger way?
 Cool.
 Man, that was a fantastic smack upside the head.
 That is something I needed, especially in that moment.
 So Albert Einstein says, weakness of attitude becomes weakness of character.
 If you don't have a good attitude, if you don't have a strong attitude, and you're probably not going to have a strong character.
 So I want to leave you with a thought from King Solomon about the inner person, the inner you, that DNA of your soul that you're developing,
 don't give up. Stay diligent.
 Proverbs 423 says, guard your heart above all else for determines the course of your life.
 If Solomon who's considered to even to this day still be the wisest person on the planet to have ever lived is telling us to do something, won't guess what?
 It's because it's something we tend to not do.
 Great. He's pointing out wisdom to us. So we need the reminder. We need the admission.
 We tend to not guard our heart that inner soul, that character, our character piece.
 We tend to be bound by our body. We tend to be slaves to its desires and patterns.
 But let me ask you this very important question.
 Is that who you want to be? Do you want to be a slave to your body's desires?
 If so, okay, well then you cannot be surprised where you are.
 If things are not going the way you want them to because you keep giving in and not having strong enough character and making bad decisions, then you have to just, you have to live with it.
 You have to reconcile that that's the way things are going to be.
 If you want things different, what does it take to self master?
 Anybody who is ever self mastered physical working out and training and getting through something understands this.
 Anybody who is who is in a healthy way handled their food well understands this.
 Anybody who is created better stronger relationships and put in healthy boundaries understands this.
 So you have to do the hard work.
 We tend to hold each other to high standards in our businesses because we want to see people succeed.
 We want to see them fulfill their purpose. We want to empower others to do so as well.
 So here's another question for you.
 As Martin Luther King Jr. said, I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character.
 So the question is, how will you be known? How will you be known?
 If only two, your God and heaven, how will you be known?
 Well folks, that's all the time we have for today. I hope this information has helped you.
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life and hopefully,
 adventure character to where you want it to be. And join us on the next episode.
 [Music]