 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show, folks. I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 So listen, there are some great speakers, some great websites, some great tools out there on the
 topic of creating a personal action plant. Getting on with your life is always a great idea.
 You've probably heard some formulas that are kind of like step one, define your goal, step two,
 write down the steps, step three prioritize tasks and actions, step four set milestones to
 celebrate and step five identify the resources needed. And while those are great steps,
 they can be very helpful. That's not what we're talking about today. So we're digging
 deeper under the surface to discover what's holding you back from getting to one of your core needs
 as a human being. That core need in order to thrive as a human as got intended is personal growth.
 So no matter how many steps you have, if you aren't actually getting to the root of what's holding
 you back, those steps can be helpful, but they're never going to be the best they can possibly be.
 So here's the core concept. You were created to grow. You were created to flourish. You were created
 to thrive. Kind was not created in a closed, sterile laboratory. It was created in a garden.
 And he was meant to grow. He was not created to just maintain the status quo. So I spent time
 each week on our farm. We call it the rich. And it's part of what God has called us to do.
 I am blessed to be able to take a day or two and work on the stuff that we've got going up here preparing
 for our business to move up here for people to get greater healing. All kinds of fun stuff.
 So if you haven't heard about that, we think it's a blessing. We look forward to what God already has planned
 and what we're trying to get done to prepare this place. We got to team up here as well.
 Let's try and prepare this place. I can tell you though that the gardens are full of dirt.
 They have smells, great smells, some interesting ones. They have worms. They have blood sweat and tears.
 And it's in this environment, not the one at the ridge. But it's this environment that God created. Man,
 he placed mankind in a garden and called it Eden. Now we say garden, but really it's a farm.
 What a God placed him in. He didn't place him in just plants. He placed him in with all kinds of animals and everything.
 So he put him in this place. And this is where God came down. Took a lump of clay, formed it,
 and then he breathed on it. Now this was pre-COVID. There was light. There was darkness.
 There were animals in sex. There was work to do. God did not put Adam and Eve in the garden.
 Say, hey, reliance. He said, "Busher but get to work. Start taking care of things." Right?
 Start making things happen. But there was even threats to avoid. Even some of the animals
 are go the serpent would be one of those things. This was and is the real world.
 And it's here that real growth takes place. It's about putting things into practice, not just imagination and theory.
 So growing is part of your intended design people. Think about that. God does not want you to stay
 right where you are. He loves you exactly right where you are. He just doesn't want to keep you there.
 As John Maxwell said, growth is the only guarantee that tomorrow is going to get better.
 Or at least what's guaranteed is that if we don't grow then nothing at all will get better. Right?
 If it didn't just happen. But if we are focusing on our growth, then tomorrow can be a better day.
 So today we're talking about how to develop a strategy for your own personal growth because like
 all good things in life, it doesn't just happen on its own. So when we come back,
 digging down to the core of human existence growth as it pertains to our individual significance and work.
 Freedom, it's so powerful. I don't rejuvenate and I want to renew.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So it was very comfortable there. That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it. It's going to be hard. It's going to be even better on the other side.
 For me it was just very refreshing and I want to say life to me and really was.
 You know I would go to the next level of life again and probably again and probably again because it's so powerful.
 I want you to ask yourself a question, could you hear the sense of hope and freedom and their voices just then?
 I want you to know that could be you. Look, it's easy to get trapped in old habits,
 negative thought patterns and unhealthy relationships. It's going to take some work but yes,
 there is hope for you. If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation,
 the same kind of self-awareness and freedom that they have or maybe you're just curious what the
 process would look like for you then head on over to Chrissacordo.com/nexlevellife.
 [Music]
 Okay, growth. Let's talk about growth. Growth is a part of life and existence. It's part of our design.
 It's from the garden onwards. If we look all the way back to the beginning of our time here on Earth,
 right? Growth is the one way that we connect with our significance and worth as a person, right?
 Self-worth or feeling valuable is a core human need. That's why we talk so much about
 worth and significance on this show. We all struggle with this at some point in our lives, but
 fundamentally a person's value gets assigned to them, not by what they do, not by man's opinions,
 not by your controlling parents, siblings, cousins, aunts, uncles, whatever, but by your creator.
 But it's when we're growing into that person that he has intended and created us to be
 that we start to recognize that value that we start to realize our God-given potential.
 So developing ourselves as a created being is one of the highest achievements we can pursue.
 It's also a form of praise and worship back to the one who has created us. It's like saying,
 "I believe that your plan for me is good and it's worth cooperating with." Listen,
 it's so much more than that when you recognize that he is the king of the universe.
 There is nothing that he plans. There is nothing that he does that is not a bajillion times better than
 our ways. His ways are always better than our ways. The least we could do is recognize that he wants
 us to grow into the person he wants us to be. So what I'm talking about developing a personal growth plan,
 we gotta begin with what his end in mind is. Who is it that God created me to be?
 What do I know? What is his scripture tell me? Not man's doctrine. Don't go by that.
 Not by bad opinions. Don't go by that. What does God's word tell you he created you to be?
 How can I cooperate with his plan? By the way, if you don't know that, go dig in and find out.
 Remove every bit of man's doctrine that you have learned your whole life.
 I praise God that when I became a believer when I finally received the salvation process that I went
 through God's word without man's doctrine. I did it by myself sitting on my floor in an apartment
 very young and in my early 20s, mid 20s and just poured it through before I started getting
 bombarded with man's doctrine. It was able to see a lot of God's true word without man's opinion on it yet.
 And praise God that's something that has been a constant for me. It's something that God has brought
 me back to. I should say it that way. Of looking at what he says and consistently removing a lot of
 man's opinions of my life or even man's ways of jacking up God's word. When I look to cooperate
 with God's plan, I have to know his plan. I have to be able to see what his plan is. I have to see how much
 he loves me and cares for me and is God of me closer to him and direct him and closer to him.
 And then I have to ask, how do I cooperate with that plan? Well, what's the biggest way to cooperate
 with your father's plan? Quit making your own. Go ahead, go ahead, go ahead, go ahead, go ahead,
 you don't get to do amazing things. Doesn't mean you don't get to have an amazing life. It means
 ask him what he wants you to do. Dig in to his word and see what he wants you to do. And then go after
 those things. You cooperate by removing selfish ways. Right? If I had a mile away, I've told
 people this for years. If I was doing my thing, if I wasn't following what I believe is God's plan,
 man, I would have a vineyard and Sonoma with a restaurant on it and I would be making wine
 and making food and teaching people from there. But that's not where I believe God is called me too.
 That's a fun, amazing thought. But I don't believe that's the plan that God has for my life.
 I believe it is consistently pouring into people whether it be clients or teams to keep helping
 people through next-to-the-life, through strap plans through our mastermind programs, our leadership
 programs, helping people to get healing, to get hope, taking proceeds of this and helping people who
 can't put food on their table. I believe these are things that he's called me to do. What I absolutely
 enjoy sitting on top of a vineyard with a restaurant on it, of course I would. And if you called me
 to that, I would be there in about, you know, 0.3 seconds. But that's not where I believe he's called me.
 So you got to dig in and find out what he's created you to be and then cooperate with his plan.
 And then how do you take that and make his plan your plan? What does that look like? God doesn't
 want you to just sit back and throw your feet up on the table and go, you know, I'm going to expect
 you to do everything Lord. No, he wants you to work. Funny thing is people don't realize what's one of
 the first thing he told how to make need to do. Get to work. Make babies and get working.
 10 to the garden take care of the animals work. Get stuff done, right? So put it to work, put his plan
 to work. So if you really want to take a deep dive into this on your own, then download our free
 work book online. It's called the Healthy Vineyard. You can find it at curslaccurl.com.
 Now if you decide you want help with this, we got folks through a 2-day event that helps them to
 get past what's holding them back from living their next level. I've so checked that out at
 curslaccurlaccurl.com/nextlevelight. Now that being said, I want to give you a few steps that you can
 follow to make sure that you're growing and developing as a person and step one of that being
 remove the obstacles to growth. Folks to stick with this garden analogy, there are weeds in your garden.
 Do not ignore them. Do not get stuck with all of these distractions that you have in life.
 It blows me away. It's one thing to see all of the young folks being absolutely addicted. Yes,
 I'm going to say addicted to their cellphones because they are. There's so many young people.
 And that's a generalization if you have some young folks who are not praise God, great job parents.
 But when you look at it, people are freaking addicted to their cellphones.
 It's sad to see how many older folks have become addicted to their cellphones. When I say
 older, I'm not talking about senior citizens. We're just talking about 40s, 50s. People that are still
 so stuck to this distraction that they can't let go of. You have to get rid of distractions.
 That's just one of them. What are the other distractions that you have in your life? Is it
 TV? Is it YouTube? Is it creating problems and creating fires so that you can put out fires?
 What are the things? Is it negative people? Is it negative sources? What about a lot of folks
 listen to crappy news that is constant? Maybe it's accurate news. But it's pumping out negativity and
 fear. I wouldn't say it was good news if it's pumping out fear. But if it's creating negative
 feelings and thoughts and ruining your day, get rid of that crap. You got to place healthy boundaries
 to keep all of this crap away. Proverbs 423 says, "Guard your heart above all else."
 Vert determines the course of your life. Another version says keep your heart with all vigilance
 for from it flow the springs of life. Folks, first thing you got to do is get rid of those obstacles.
 If you're not experiencing a real life, if you're not heading in the direction that you want to go
 and if you don't have clear sense of purpose, then ask yourself these self-assessment questions.
 Where has the soil of my heart become polluted? Where? Get in there, find out, dig through it,
 fix it. Where are the corrupting influences in my life right now? Who are the corrupting influences in my
 life right now? A bipy family, a bipy friends, a bipy co-workers, a boss. It could be the influences that you
 listen to on TV, music, movies, social, thinking media. Take a look and see if you've got
 corrupting influences on social media. Also, how am I combating the negativity in setting healthy
 boundaries up? Am I facing the negativity in my life? That's affecting me and holding me back.
 Am I putting healthy boundaries in place? These are things that we have to ask ourselves. When we come
 back, cultivating your heart like a garden and owning your personal growth.
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue
 when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having a lack
 of high quality communication. To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life,
 it all starts with having great communication. The best way to get that communication is to
 understand your personality style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're
 spending the most time with. Whether it be at work, whether it be at home. The best way to do that is
 to go to crissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your team
 two day. Get it for your family members. Today, as you go through that profile, you will begin to see
 the greatest ways to communicate. Go to crissacrittle.com/store2day.
 Step number two, cultivating your heart like a garden. Now, there are life-giving habits, hobbies,
 activities that you can be doing do not ignore them. Get out of your own head. Get out of the
 things that you're stuck in. Get out of negativity. Get out of negative self-talk. Get out of self-abuse.
 Get out of self-hate. Whatever it is, make sure that you start fixing the crap in your mind. Start
 finding out what is lies and start telling yourself truths. Find the negative self-talk,
 shut it down, take it captive and start shoving truth into your brain. Help yourself. By the way,
 don't be isolated. Make sure that you're not leaving yourself to just your own thoughts because that
 can be pretty crappy at times. Make sure your pumping good quality thoughts and truths in your brain.
 Another thing is, get out of your comfort zone. So many people get stuck in their comfort zone
 in their freight of conflict or their freight of change or they just love being where they are.
 Being comfortable. They don't realize that there's better things ahead. There's better personal growth
 when you get out of your comfort zone. Sometimes you need to stretch yourself. Even if you don't
 have an intention to grow in that area, sometimes it's good just to let me push myself in the seriency.
 What happens? If the worst thing that happens is you got a little stretched out there and
 now you can do that thing whatever it is. Great. If it doesn't end up in a
 career-changing decision or a life-changing decision, so what did you grow? Did you stretch?
 So get out of your comfort zone. Another thing is invest attention to self-awareness.
 Spend time learning you. One of the biggest struggles that I try to help people through and
 sometimes we make a through and sometimes they don't is being aware of how they act, how they react,
 how they make decisions, how they communicate, when they're being victims, when they're being controlling,
 when they're being manipulative, when they're not even aware of anything that they're doing.
 You have to spend time paying attention to who you are and what you do.
 This is a tough thing to do. You have to be cognizant. One of the things that I ask myself all the time
 is why did I just do that? Why did I say that? What am I struggling with? There's a lot of times
 that I will see myself do something or hear myself say something or act in a certain way and I go to,
 "Whoa, what was that? Why did I do that?" Am I struggling with something? Am I feeling insecure right now?
 Am I feeling the need to control this situation? I will go through this check-down
 of questions in my head to try and discover what's my problem. I don't sit there being a victim going,
 "Well, it doesn't matter because here's the situation." Instead, I go, "Whoa, what's up?
 Did I need to respond the way? Did I need to act that way?" Am I in the right? Am I in the wrong?
 Make sure that you're paying attention to yourself. Now, Larry Bossady once said that
 self-awareness gives you the capacity to learn from your mistakes as well as your success and enables you
 to keep growing. Self-awareness is defined as how an individual knows and understands their own character,
 feelings, motives and desires. In fact, we did a whole podcast recently on the subject of
 character and I highly encourage you to check it out. It's episode 487. Some of the self-assessment
 questions are, "How isolated are you? Are others speaking into your life? Are you stuck in a rut?
 Is your routine keeping you from risking? What are you doing that's giving you insight into your
 life and mentality?" So take a look at what books, podcasts, seminars, discussions, mastermind groups,
 are any of these helping you? Because many of these, if chosen correctly,
 done right, you choose healthy versions of these that can help you understand your habits. They can
 help you understand your behavior. They can help you understand your emotions. What do you do with
 all that understanding? If you are somebody who likes to implement, you change. You do things differently.
 You make changes. Why? Because our goal is to grow. So make sure you take a look at where is
 all the influence coming from and if you don't have quality, healthy influence in your life.
 Let me say this. For those of you listening to this show, I know that most of you
 are listening to this show because you actually desire quality influence. You desire to implement
 things into your life. I know a lot of folks, they conflict and hate change.
 But here's what I want you to really rumenate on right now to use a farm comment. Here's what I want
 you to rumenate on. Do you have healthy influences? Not just in one area. Obviously you're listening
 to the show. I hope that we are being a healthy influence to you. But are you a part of any Master
 mind groups? Are you part of any great live events? Are you reading good quality books that is
 helping you in a great way to understand you? If not, what are we going to do about that? Now,
 step three, develop your personal growth plan. So here's what we want you to focus on. We want
 you to focus on nurturing the soil of your heart. Adding the things that will encourage growth.
 Now, if that sounds scary to you, let it be something you grab onto. It's okay to have heart
 change to have heart growth, right? The key is not just going after change for change purposes.
 What do we do to nurture the soil? Listen to your heart, feed your heart, develop a reading
 and journaling plan. I can tell you that is something that helps so many people to first thing in the
 morning when you get up start journaling. Whatever is in your mind, get stuff out of your head. I know
 a lot of you artistic people. A lot of you aesthetic people. It is so helpful that when you wake up
 first thing in the morning to pick up a pen and paper or a computer and just dump, do a brain dump.
 15 minutes of getting the stuff out of your head no matter what it is because then it gives you a
 clear head to move forward. For a lot of us it helps us to just write down things that we've experienced.
 And ways that we've experienced things and things that have happened. I know for me,
 gratitude is a great thing being able to mark down what's happened and how thankful I am and how amazing
 it is and how blessed I am by God. So develop a reading and journaling plan and reading my gosh.
 I highly suggest the Bible is the book you read more than anything that is me. You're going to learn
 to heck a lot more from your focus with God and asking for His wisdom than reading man's opinions.
 I'm not saying don't read man's opinions. I'm just saying make scripture a top priority.
 Also determine what a healthy lifestyle is for you. What does it look like to have a healthy lifestyle?
 What does it look like to have time alone? Time to think by yourself? What does it like to have
 healthy people in your life? What does it like to not have unhealthy people take up so much of your time?
 What does it like to actually have proper self care? Not the crap that's being spewed nowadays
 that the whole world is on your shoulders and you deserve so much taking care of yourself.
 Now I'm talking about when you need rest you get rest. When you need to eat you eat healthy properly.
 When you need time away you take time away. When you need to be focused on serving and helping and
 working and driving things and you know busking about you do those things.
 What does a healthy lifestyle look for you? Are you able to sit quietly alone and think about your life
 if not? Why not? Are you one of those people that can't stand the silence?
 I have known many people in my life that can't stand the silence. They can't stand their own thoughts.
 They hate their own thoughts, right? Well, not being silent doesn't solve that problem. It just numbs it.
 What we're looking for is how do we overcome it? How do we solve it? So self-assessment questions?
 Are you spending time listening to your own heart? Are you spending enough time reading and journaling?
 And what do you need to change about sleep? You're probably not getting enough. I can tell you that exercise?
 Probably not getting enough. I hate the word diet, but it's the one that lands in people's minds because
 I don't live. I don't diet. I change my eating habits a long time ago.
 It's a lifestyle change, right? I eat healthy. Why are a big part of what we're doing up here?
 At the ridge is to create healthy food for people so that they are eating something that is not toxic.
 There is a great video, a great movie out that you need to see. It's called Dark Waters.
 It's got Mark Ruflode. It's about the DuPont Teflon crap that they believe 99% of all human beings
 now have in the PFOA that they have in their bodies and what it's been doing to people for the longest time.
 Go rent that. I think it's like four bucks to rent that movie. Dark Waters, Mark Ruflode, DuPont.
 That's one of the things we haven't used Teflon in ages because we back in the early days when
 this was coming about. We learned about it and made decisions to do healthier stuff.
 What does it look like to have a healthier diet? Get rid of sodas. Get rid of sugar. Get rid of
 a ton of crap. Process foods. Thinking that something is healthy because it has the word healthier natural
 on the box doesn't mean that it's healthy. It becomes an a box. It's not healthy.
 So making good quality choices when you do these things and get your butt again to sleep.
 Get plenty of sleep that will help your emotions dramatically. Getting rid of sugar will
 help your emotions dramatically. Getting rid of processed carbs, bad fats. If you have not learned about
 seed oils, go learn about seed oils and what they're doing to you and how they're in just about
 everything and how insanely toxic they are. Making these changes will help you. What is it going to
 help you do? It'll help you nourish yourself to make great change. Remember that you were created in a garden
 or a farm. It's called a garden in the inscripture but really there's animals and you were created to
 grow you along with God. God is your greatest gardener right but you are a gardener. Take up the role
 for your personal life and growth and own it. Again if you want help with this we have a free resource on
 our website. It's called the healthy vineyard. You can download it at christlickardo.com and I'm
 telling you that's something you want to do. That's a great tool. So if you want to be personally
 guided through this process then you're ready for next level of experience. On site here in
 Nashville, Tennessee some day we'll be doing them up at the ridge hopefully some days soon. Check that
 out online at christlickardo.com/nextlevellife. Folks that's all the time we have for today. As always I
 pray that this is helped you. Take this information change your leadership change your business change
 your life and join us on the next episode.
 (upbeat music)
 [MUSIC PLAYING]