 Transitions can be stressful.
 On today's episode, we're talking about what it's like to leave a job.
 So if there's never been a better time for you to do so, then what is holding you back.
 We're going to be talking about all of that coming up next.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCordo Show.
 Where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show folks.
 Hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today we're talking about transition and we're talking about what it's like to leave a job,
 the right way, the right time, all of that.
 Before I get into any of my details because there's certain things that I'm going to mention,
 and I definitely don't want them to be taken out of context.
 So please understand, let me set the context for what I'm talking about right now.
 I am somebody who has worked many jobs to put food on the table.
 So please do not hear from me that I think that you should not be out there busting your butt,
 putting food on the table, working hard, working multiple jobs if you have to to take care of yourself,
 your family, your home, all that kind of stuff.
 So please understand that is the context as we go forward.
 There's a lot of people out there who preach this crazy concept that you should only go after,
 a dream job, right?
 We're going to talk about going after a dream job today.
 But here's what I want you to know, that is not going to be my advice to you.
 My advice to you is if all of your bases are covered and you're good to go,
 or if the dream job pops up, that's great.
 But what I don't want you to do is not be busting your butt, waiting around for a dream job,
 or not be out there, you know, putting food on your table, taking care of your family, because
 you're going after something that's not paying you.
 So please understand that's the context as we go into this episode.
 Always, always, always be working to put food on your table, to put roof over your head,
 you know, gas in your car, all that kind of stuff.
 That always trumps everything else that we're going to talk about.
 Now, with that being said, let me speak to my low conflict loving people.
 I can also tell you as somebody who is a very high S on the disc profile, that there have been times
 that I have questioned whether or not I should leave a place.
 This is all in my very younger years that was a crappy place to be,
 because I didn't like the conflict of leaving, or I was worried that I wasn't going to find something
 better, or, or, or, or. So that's all in my younger younger years, you know, my probably my teens and
 20s. So I know there's a lot of folks who are 40, 50 that are afraid to leave a job because they're
 afraid of the conflict. So let me push on you slightly a little bit here as we go through this
 process. I want you to be thinking about, is that holding you back as well.
 So let's jump in. There are a few transitions in life more stressful than leaving permanent employment.
 I mean, that's definitely got to be way up there at the top, right? So in fact, many people will stay
 on in the wrong job, enduring, uh, drudgery and during hardships, or even sometimes low level abuse,
 or even decent amount of abuse in order to avoid the uncertainty of unemployment and job searching,
 and all that kind of junk that comes with it, right? So here's the question that I have for you.
 Is that you? Do you hate Mondays? Do you dread going to the office? Have you lost your passion
 for what you're doing? Are you the person who can't stand being on that zoom call? Or do you feel
 like you're on the wrong team or you don't fit in? Well, believe it or not, according to the Harvard
 Business Review, the question, am I doing what is right for me or should I change direction as one of the
 most pressing questions in the mid career professionals mine today? That is something that a lot of
 people are asking, right? And, you know, rightly so. There's plenty of opportunities out there.
 I've got some of my older friends and clients, you know, that come from a generation before me,
 who were, you know, especially the guys were raised in a place where, hey, you, you, you stay in that job
 no matter what, because it was coming out of, you know, hardships and taking care of the family and
 all that kind of stuff. Well, there's a lot of options today. Do I think you should bounce around like
 crazy like the young folks do? You know, no more than two and a half years per job? No, that's not what I'm
 saying either. But do I think you have to stay at a job for 40, 50 years that you don't like? No,
 I don't think that either. So the signs are green for go right now. So as of summer 2022,
 now we're going to be talking about all US employment. I know there is a bunch of you out there that are
 all over the world that listen to this show. I don't have your stats. So we're only going to be
 focusing on the US. The US unemployment rate has fallen to 3.5%. The employment to population ratio,
 which is the proportion of the country's working age population that is employed, is right at about 60%.
 So the US job market is strong. It's even surging according to many economists. Jobs are going.
 Jobs seekers are becoming more active. Signs are good for those who want to make a change. So what is the
 problem? Well, if you live in middle Tennessee like me, then you've probably seen the signs. What are
 those signs? You've heard we say before on the show. The one ads, they're in the windows. They're in
 the lawns and front of businesses. They are all over the place. There are jobs everywhere. People will
 actually pay you to work for them. I know it's incredible. It's crazy. This new concept. Hey, come work for us.
 We'll give you money. There's plenty of jobs. So are you stuck in front of a stop sign? Is there
 something that is holding you back? Why are so many people reluctant to enter or shift positions?
 Even you don't even have to leave the place you're in. What if you just shifted the position
 that you're in in the workforce? Well, coming out of the instability and uncertainty of the pandemic,
 it seems folks are waiting for something. Waiting for, you know, to see if there's going to be
 lock downs again. If that's going to happen again, waiting to see if the economy is going to slip into
 a recession. We've had a whole ton of fear and struggle around the concept of what if we go back into
 recession. There's a whole lot of hesitation waiting to see what's going to happen politically. And I get
 that. I understand all of that. It's anybody's guess what's going to happen. But here's a deal.
 That's not really what's important. Honestly, why? Because today may be your best opportunity in recent
 times to make a transition for the better. It's the rot economy. Jobs abound. Employers are on the
 search for skilled and steady workers. So let's get to work. That is what we're going to be talking
 about when we come back. Three steps to help you make a change or reengage the workforce right after this.
 Hey leaders. This is Joel Fortner, VP, a leadership development at Chris Lcardo's company.
 I have some questions for you. Do you as a leader feel like you are caught up in a crazy cycle of
 stress and task that never ends week to week? Do you ever have to deal with tough conversations with team
 members? And you sit at home the next day the night before worried about how's it going to go? What am I
 going to say? What are they going to say? Can I think fast enough on my feet? Is it going to be a total failure?
 Are you experiencing culture problems or that stuff that just breaks down trust and unity on your
 team? Well if you can relate to any of this this is a pretty typical leadership story in situation.
 Here's the thing though. It doesn't have to be that way and we can help you solve these things. We can
 help you become the leader that solves these problems and leads their team to greater success. I want
 to introduce you to the key leaders program. This is an ongoing leadership development program that
 gives you the lesson track, coaching and accountability you need to become the leader you can become to
 actually implement what you're actually learning in this program. Things fall apart without great
 leadership and intentionality. If you want to solve the problems that are holding you back from being a
 great leader we can help you with this program get in touch jolly christlacardo.com.
 So let's talk about creating your personal transition plan. So you're on the hunt for the ideal position.
 The ideal team, the ideal environment free to work in a place for you to flourish. Maybe you haven't
 thought about finding a place that you can flourish in. I highly suggest that you do. Find the
 kind of place you want to be and maybe you're stuck in your current position and it's not a good fit for you.
 Maybe you're trying to re-engage and let me say this. Take away as we get into a bunch of this
 information. Here's what I want you to do. I want you to take away any peer pressure.
 Anything that anybody's telling you that you have to do or anything that somebody's telling you is
 not good enough for you. As you focus on getting the right position, the right place to flourish,
 what do you want to be? What do you want to do? As we go through the stuff, I want you to not go well.
 Everybody's told me that I need to be a CPA. Obviously that's the place I need to be. That's not what
 I don't want you to think that way. There are so many different jobs open right now. It is great.
 As we run this amazing business and help out so many people and so many individuals and business
 owners and leaders and teams and all this kind of stuff, we also have a farm that we have been setting up
 that I get to work on once or twice a week, depending upon what day it is and get things going.
 I love it because I have team members up there that work full time. They absolutely love working outside
 in the elements, doing things with their hands, doing things that they love. They would not
 want to sit in an office. If that's something that reaches your heart, we just hired somebody another person
 literally last night. I did the spousler of U last night, we hired today. Somebody who is working with
 the gardening, we have a big market garden that we're doing. We have stuff that we're doing to provide
 for people around and a lot of the stuff is going to a nonprofit that puts food on people's tables.
 That person loves, has never done that and is loving being out in the environment. They've worked
 for us for a while as a part-time and they've loved being in the environment. As I'm saying this,
 I go through these things. I don't want you to just think, well, I need to the thing that I need
 to flourish and has to fit what everybody's told me I need to do or what I've always imagined I
 had to do. Don't think that way. I want your mind to be open as we go through these questions. It can
 be tough to get the wheels in motion so where do we begin? Here are three steps. Step number one,
 write down what you're not looking for. What's wrong with where you are now? Be specific.
 I do not want you to be a victim. Please, please do not be a victim to where you are.
 Write down the things that don't fit. Automize the things. Be specific about the things that you're
 just like I just don't. I don't like this. So let's say you are that person who hates working inside
 in an office. Well, that would be one of those things, right? But if what you're writing down is,
 oh my gosh, my mean boss doesn't let me use the microwave for lunch. Well, okay, stop. That's
 that's probably not a reason to leave a job. But it may be an indicator that there's more
 other things that are going to be piling up behind the keys here. Don't be a victim. Just write down
 be specific and optimize the things that don't really work out for you. Be realistic. What's not
 of it for you? The people, the environment, the ideology. If that's a bad fit, those are big things.
 That's not victimizing, right? If you have a company that has a mission that does not align with you,
 then it's probably someplace you want to get out of. If they have ideology, that does not
 align with you. And then maybe something that you want to get out of. What's lacking in your resume,
 whether it's skills, experience, or does this fit your personality style? No, if you have not,
 done your personality profile. If you've not done a disc, you need to do this. I highly suggest,
 before we get into step number two, if you've not spent time doing this, go to crissacridor.com
 into the store and take the personality profile. Take the personality test, the disc profile. You can do
 the disc in values. I think that's really important as well. But at the bare minimum, go do the
 disc. Get that thing and get the free download to take a look at your life system.
 Manically, it's called the healthy vineyard workbook. Make sure that you get that download as well.
 This helps you kind of take a look at you. This will prepare you for what's next, right? So get a
 really good understanding of what's not working, what doesn't align, what aspects of mission and
 ideology or personality style is not aligning with you today. All right, now we're ready for step number two.
 Right down, what you are looking for. Take a hard look. This folks, this should probably not take
 you three minutes. If you've got this written down in three minutes, you're probably not going
 deep enough. I want you to take a long look at a lifelong career trajectory. What are you looking
 for? What fits in what you've been doing? Well, of course I've got four jobs back there that
 were never passions of mine right? Guess what? Every single job that I've had since I was 14 years old
 is utilized in the business that I run. There's nothing that I've done that hasn't had any
 impact one way shape or form on the business that on point main, on the business that we run here.
 Every bit and it also has effects in the other businesses that we own as well. So don't look back
 on something. Well, I was a cashier back at the gas station and I don't see how that trust me. Take a look
 at the trajectory you're on. What did that do for you to have that customer service learning and
 experience? Well, how was it a cook and a restaurant? All I did was cook the same food every day.
 What did that teach you about serving people and taking care? Take a look at this career trajectory
 is God doing something. It's God compiling these things and pointing you in a specific direction. So where
 are you headed? What is a good fit for you? Where would you like to be and make these specific
 in two years? Where would you like to be in five years? Where would you like to be
 in ten years? If you want to set out a great trajectory and let me put another caveat in here, I believe
 move forward with what God's telling you to do. This is going to help you to get some of that information
 out in spend time and prayer on all of this stuff. Listen to what God's telling you to do. But
 what do you want to be? What about ten years from now? What does that look like? Right? Well,
 but where I want to be in two years and ten years are two totally different things. Great.
 You do not have to nail yourself down to a fifty-year career. Folks, you just don't have to do it.
 So you're saying I could work doing this over here for now and then shift and do this over here?
 Yeah, absolutely. There's no great rules to this. The big rules were the caveats on the front of
 the show. Put food on your table. Take care of your family. Don't be a victim. Bus it. Do those
 things and then plan these other parts out. So this isn't just dreamly gazing at the stars and
 wishing things were different. We're not sitting down and just going, oh, I wish God would change things.
 I wish things were different. This is actually taking steps. This needs to be based on what you know about
 you. Your personality style, this matters greatly. It's got to be based on your personality style.
 Don't go after something that your personality style is absolutely going to hate. If you're somebody
 super high-c mid to low as very low-eye, probably don't put yourself in hospitality two years from now.
 That's probably not something being in front of people that you're absolutely going to love.
 So make sure that the things that you're thinking about align with your personality style.
 Now you might need others to kind of speak into this and sometimes it can be hard to see the force for
 the trees. So make sure you're choosing healthy advisors. Get people who know you who aren't going
 to try and steer you on a direction that they want you to go, who aren't going to try and knock you down.
 Oh, you shouldn't be leaving. You shouldn't be going after your dreams because they're struggling
 with not going after their dreams. Make sure you're picking somebody healthy. Somebody knows you.
 Somebody who's healthy, who can speak into this as well and take their advice with a grain of salt.
 So maybe it works. Maybe it doesn't. I am somebody who gains a ton of perspective.
 I love asking people their opinions. I love seeing what people know what they think with the experience.
 It doesn't mean that I take it all. It means I take it all in. So many times I might go to
 somebody just to see what they're thinking and if they're way off from, you know, if I see that they're
 taking it personally or they're making about them, I just don't take that advice. But if I see that
 somebody has some great healthy advice, I'll never forget when I started this business,
 you know, I just thought the beginning was going to be so small. And a buddy of mine, Tony check
 went with me. I was looking at places to start the business to buy a building. I really wouldn't
 even look into buy a building. I was looking to buy a little loft above downtown Franklin.
 And I thought, you know, this thing is going to grow slowly and we went in and I had Tony with me.
 And he looked at the place and he goes, "Chris, I don't think this is it."
 I was like, "You're kidding. Why?" He goes, "Because it's small." He goes, "I don't think you're
 preparing for how fast this is going to grow and what this is going to do." And I needed that
 in that moment because part of me was saying, "Wow, I don't expect it to be huge right off the
 bat." Well, praise God I had Tony with me. Somebody speaking into my life because instead of buying
 that place, which would have been fun and cool. It was, you know, a loft above downtown Franklin.
 I went and bought a bigger place. And within one year's time, I bought the place next to that.
 So it was really good having somebody with me to give good healthy information. That's what you're
 making for yourself. When we come back, getting out of the head fog and onto the path, that's right for you.
 Freedom, it's so powerful. I don't rejuvenate and I'm all renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment. So
 I was very comfortable there. That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it. It's going to be hard. It's going to be even better on the other side.
 For me, it was just very refreshing. And I want to say life to me and really was.
 You know, I would go to the next level of life again and probably again and probably again.
 Because it's so powerful. I want you to ask yourself a question, could you hear the sense of
 hope and freedom and their voices just then? I want you to know that could be you. Look, it's easy to
 get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns and unhealthy relationships. It's going to take
 some work, but yes, there is hope for you. If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation,
 the same kind of self-awareness and freedom that they have or maybe you're just curious what the
 process would look like for you, then head on over to ChrissaCurtot.com/nextlevellife.
 [Music]
 Now, before we get to step three, I'm promoting my own stuff here. I want to tell you to consider
 something and I want you to really think about this. There's many of you out there that have not
 gone through next level of life yet and some of the reasons are just terrible. Some of you,
 it breaks my heart. You think you don't deserve it. You think that it's for other people and it's
 not for you and that is a lie from hell. That is a lie from Satan. Let me just say that right now.
 That is not how God sees you. You should not see you that way. It is not about deserving to go
 through that event. That event is powerful and it guides you closer to God and it gives you
 phenomenal perspective on your life and gives you phenomenal path going forward. So, if that's the
 thing that you're telling yourself and it breaks my heart to know that there are many, not just one,
 not two, not three. There have been many people over the years that that's the lie that they tell
 themselves that, "Oh, well, my spouse deserves it, but I don't deserve it. I shouldn't go and do that
 thing. You got to get that out of your head." Or if you think it's going to be too much conflict. Trust
 me. I think we're over 500 events at this point and nobody has come back and said, "Well, that was
 too much conflict for me. I couldn't handle it." Are there tough parts? Of course, there are
 tough parts. What's the biggest fear of everybody? Well, I don't know what we're going to discover.
 I don't know what we're going to find out. Now, we've said it's the same exact fear that every person
 has walking through the door and always say the same thing. Do you think we're going to find something
 that you don't already know about? Are we going to guide you to some eye-opening things? Absolutely.
 Are you going to see things from different perspectives? Absolutely. But you're not going to all
 of a sudden find out something horrible about yourself that you never knew. And many people have
 thought that. So those are my caveats as I go into this. When you're looking for change in life to
 better your life, to grow your life, for better career trajectory, whatever it is, I want you to
 highly consider going through next level of life. After you dig into that, you know, I talked about
 that free, healthy vineyard download, which is just powerful. It can help you to see things through
 your root system that are holding you back from reaching your potential. Go through that, dig through that.
 And then if you would like to just get information, go to crissacardal.com, click on the what we do
 button and go to the life coaching and take the next easy step. This is a personalized two-day event
 for you. This is not a group event. If you want to bring your spouse to can, if you don't
 bring your spouse, you don't have to know problem with that. This is one on one. Me and you, Joel and you,
 whatever it is, this is a personalized event. I say all of that because this is a powerful point for a
 lot of folks in their career to recognize the things that have been holding them back from moving forward,
 from moving into a better career, from getting rid of the fear of conflict, from feeling not worth
 enough to take on another job, from fear of man's opinion. So it's a lot of info, but folks, I'm telling
 you the results are incredible. When you're able to move forward and go, okay, or even decide to
 stay exactly where you are and put in better boundaries or make better decisions, right? It's just
 a powerful piece. So now that I've said that on to step three, step three is I want you to write
 down what you're doing to get there. What are you literally doing? Not just dreaming, not just
 thinking about it, not just hoping for it. What are you literally doing to get to the place you
 want to be? Make a task list of what you can do right now to prepare for where you want to go.
 What are the things that you can be putting in place? Hey, worst case scenario here, right? You make
 a great task list and you go after stuff and it makes the place you're at better, right? So listen, do this,
 spend time, make a task list of the things you can do right now to prepare where you want to go,
 or where you think you're headed. Also, what new skills do you need or do need to improve on?
 Don't sit there thinking, I'm not worthy of gaining new skills. Now listen, don't go put yourself
 in 47 hours a day of schooling and your kids don't know who you are and your spouse doesn't know who you are
 because it's so important for you to gain a new skill, right? Build it into what you have available.
 Remember your priorities, right? So take care of your family, all that kind of stuff, but find a way
 that doesn't sacrifice family and definitely doesn't sacrifice your time with God to build a new skill.
 If you need it, maybe you don't. Maybe you've already got the skills. Maybe what you need to improve on
 is small. Maybe it's not even that big at all. Maybe it is big. Just depending upon what it is,
 write that down. What new skills do you need or need to improve on? Also, how can you start
 actively seeking the right opportunities? Now, what does that look like? What does it look like to
 make some phone calls into some companies and just gain perspective? Ask questions about roles.
 Even if you don't send an arrest a may, what if you just go shadow someplace one day or just get a
 bunch of information on what it's like to be in this role that you're thinking about. So let's kind of
 ideate a little bit on that last point. So who are the right people for you to associate with?
 Right, already in the genre that you're looking at, the type of market you're looking at, the sector
 you're interested in, are there people, right people that you can start associating with? Are there people
 you can start hanging out with? Are there people you can just go and tax the collective intelligence and
 gain information on. What are the right skills sets? Mind sets. Experience that you need to move you
 into that ideal? I don't want to say perfect position, but ideal position that dream position, right?
 What do you need? What are the right skill sets and where can you go to even be a part of that? What if it's just
 starting out by being a part of a group that's doing this specific thing, right? Also for the people of faith,
 have you asked God to open your eyes? Have you spent time praying to God to open your eyes to open the doors
 to bring opportunities to you? Listen, he already knows the best path for your career.
 He already knows the best path for your life. You know, that old saying, don't ask God to bless
 what you're doing, find out what he's doing, jump on board with that because it's already blessed.
 Right? So spend time and prayer, getting him to tell you what you should be doing and where you should be going.
 Consider this from the book of Proverbs chapter 3. Trust on the Lord with all your heart. Do not
 depend on your own understanding. Seek his well in all you do and he will show you which path to take.
 And folks, let me say that that is my prayer for you. So a final word of advice as you're waiting
 for the Lord to show you which path to take. Do not give up on where you are. Finish your current
 job well. Do your work as unto the Lord. Do not give up because you're now looking for something new
 or you're thinking about something new or you're dreaming about or not dreaming but tasking
 a new opportunity in the future. Finish your current job well. Do this well. God has blessed you with this
 opportunity that you're in even though it may for some of you are like this in the blessing. Hey,
 is it putting food on your table? I'll never forget. I was talking was exactly years ago when we
 did some events with him. And he was talking about a gallon in a book signing line that came up and
 she was just complaining and complaining about our business. I was right down the street and
 zig just did they pay a paycheck? Well, yes. Can you take that paycheck and put food on your table? Well,
 yes. And does that put a roof over your head? Well, yes. And can you pay for your cart? Well, absolutely,
 but he just went through this list of things and he goes, well, it sounds like you have some things that
 you're blessed with. Some things that you can be happy for. And that kind of changed that person's
 perspective. It doesn't mean that the place was a great place. It doesn't mean that you should
 sit in a crappy place. That's not his point. His point was just because you may be in a place you don't
 like and I have had those jobs again, you know, early 20s, late teens. Just because you, you may be
 in a place you don't love. You're not crazy about it. It doesn't mean that it's not a blessing of God.
 It doesn't mean that you aren't blessed with the paycheck that you take home. So finish your current
 job really well. Exoplanes are great and it's fine to execute one, but character and endurance and faithfulness
 are all super important, especially especially as you're waiting. If you cannot have endurance,
 if you cannot have great character where you are right now, as you're thinking about transitioning,
 what in the world are you going to take with you? What do you expect to have at all? I'll beef up my
 character. I'll bring out all my great character at the new job. Now if you can't have where you are,
 trust me, it's going to be the same exact thing where you get to. So finish well. So don't be better.
 Don't be struggling in the waiting. Be patient, endure and wait on the Lord. Well folks,
 hopefully that has helped you today. As always, I want you to take this information,
 want you to change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]