 Continuing with the series on examining our lives to find the lives that we tell ourselves
 that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks. I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Some of you may be familiar with this quote. I say it often from not often but from time to time and some people have no clue what I'm saying.
 But I'm going to throw this out there and see if you are familiar with this quote from Gosh, what is now an old film.
 So here you go, since you're new here, I'm going to cut you a break today. So why don't you make like a tree and get out of here?
 Now, there you go, that's my best Biff Tanner impersonation from the 1985 back to the future.
 Some of you are like, I don't know if I've ever heard of that film before and some of you are with me. You remember that line?
 That was a fun scene and it was a funny scene for at least a couple of reasons. Firstly, Marty's Nemesis Biff Tanner, or Tannin, I should say not Tanner Tannin, gets the line wrong.
 Obviously the line is make like a tree and leave.
 And he later finds out in the future, I think back to the future too, that what the actual line is.
 But also it completely undermines the aggression that Biff is showing Marty when he's welcoming the new kid to the school, right?
 So it's classic 1980s bullying humor at its cinematic finest for those of us who grew up in the 80s, not sure how that would go over in today's climate.
 But the question behind the question is, what's really going on inside Biff in that moment, right?
 In today's episode, part of a series of looking at the lies, victims and villains tell themselves, the point is for us to face the wounds and weaknesses we all have inside of us.
 So here's a deal. Without examining our lives, thoughts, actions, everything, and we tend to get stuck in harmful and most likely distorted thinking patterns.
 So when we come back, gaining perspective and getting power over the lies of villain mentality.
 Hey folks, it's coming up.
 The next level leadership live event of 2023 will be here before you know it.
 In just a few weeks, online registration will open up and I've got to tell you, you won't want to miss this opportunity.
 For a very limited time, you'll be able to take $500 off of your tickets. That's right, a $500 discount. This is an incredible deal.
 The next level leadership live event is your best opportunity to get the tools you need to take your leadership to the next level.
 Details will be on the website very soon, but in the meantime, you can sign up now to be notified as soon as registration goes live.
 Don't put this off. Head on over to crissacardo.com/events.
 That's crissacardo.com/events.
 To set your notification and be informed as soon as tickets go on sale.
 I hope to see you at the event.
 In the episodes on victim mentality, we talked about how it has become socially acceptable.
 Sociality, even praiseworthy to boast about your victimhood.
 It is just beyond ridiculous.
 It's not something that just don't get why so many people are in love with it.
 In fact, you would be the opposite when it comes to being a bully.
 We see a whole lot of people complaining about bullying in school, but really, it's not.
 It's not the opposite or at least it depends on who your audience is.
 I mean, after all, it's a normal stress or panic reaction to go into fight or flight mode, right?
 The attack mechanism can get triggered pretty easily nowadays and it's becoming just as fashionable and even justifiable to lash out in anger when provoked.
 It is amazing to me. It is amazing to me to see the people who are complaining about bullying being people who bully.
 It will never just make sense to me how somebody can feel like it's okay for them to do it.
 The double standard, they can bully the living daylights out of somebody, but my gosh, it also needs to be the very thing that they can plan about because it's so horrendous and so horrible.
 So again, we've got to dig down underneath the surface to see what's really going on.
 So if we leave this part of our lives unexamined, we'll end up with a life that's lacking real meaning and that is not where we want to be.
 So we've all struggled with untrue recorded memos in our heads and often set the loop and repeat about ourselves, about other people, about our potential, our problems, circumstances, weaknesses, failures, etc.
 But rehearsing a lie over and over again doesn't make it true as I shared this two-podcast ago.
 It just gives it more power over you and stuck on repeat lies getting bedded in our thinking.
 They become part of our inner dialogue and even our, this is a scary part character.
 So make sure if you've not come back to check out episode 47 on why character counts for more perspective and make sure that you go and do that.
 So these untrue memos, they get stuck as negative self-talk. They get stuck in our mind and they typically crop up in a couple of ways, encouraging us to act out either as victims or as villains or possibly even both.
 So we could say that Bifz characters exhibiting a surface level response of bullying.
 These microaggressions are likely the result and I don't know if Bifz aggression was micro, but you know microaggressions can result be the result of insecurities, coping mechanisms, interconflicts, definitely lack of self-worth.
 And that's actually why Bifz character is so relatable. Now I can tell you as somebody who is a, you know, again, a very high S and somebody who grew up being a very submissive and dealing with controlling people all throughout my life.
 When I look at Bifz character in the movie, when I was a kid, I mean, I just, it was not something that I could relate to as far as being a Bifz, but instead something that I despised as being a real mean controlling jerk, right?
 However, as life goes on and we experience things in life and we grow in life, I think everybody can get to a place as they get older of recognizing everybody has an internal Bif, right?
 Everybody has a period where insecurities might drive you to bad decision making or anger or frustration or struggles in life. For some people, they've got it from an early age.
 For some people, it's a struggle from early on. Our goal today is not to point out people and just talk about how bad it is to be a Bifz, but instead what do we do with it? How do we dig underneath and find out? So here's a larger than life character of the bully that we've all played at one time or another.
 You may never have responded that much, but you've probably had a moment where you've acted out in a frustration or in an anger way. We've all probably told ourselves similar lines to what Bifz dealing with. I'll never be good enough.
 I'll never be accepted or appreciated. Nobody likes me. So I've got to appear strong, right? I mean, we look at the movie and we think Bif doesn't have any problems in life and he's just being a jerk because he's choosing to be a jerk, but what do we know?
 There's a whole lot of insecurity going on. And yes, I am using a fictional character, but it applies to all of us as humans as well. Either way, I think you get the point. The key is to recognize and deal with these lies so that they don't ruin our lives or the lives of others, you know, in the case of bullies.
 Speaking of lies that hold us back from experiencing the life and business that you really want in life, that's what this podcast is all about.
 So let me pause and mention that we are coming up on our 500th episode. Thank you to you, the 500th episode of the Chris LaCardo Show and that's super exciting for us.
 It's been over nine years of helping people to get unstuck in life and business to create greater relationship, to create greater lives, to create greater businesses, you know, to celebrate the fact that we keep growing and we keep helping people and we keep seeing them embrace the life of leadership that they really want or relationships that they really want.
 We're giving free stuff away. Yep, that is right. For the month of November, you can go to Chris LaCardo.com/50500 and answer a few questions that will help us bring you even more amazing content and sign up for your chance to win some really great prizes.
 So go to Chris LaCardo.com/500 today and sign up and let me just say we'll talk more about the 500th episode, but it means the world to us that you guys have made this possible.
 So we love that you're with us and we love that we get to do this and help bring information that's hopefully helping to change your life.
 Okay, now back to villains. What a friend transition right there. So while we're going to add a little bit of a spice to the mix and give our villains a little contrast so that they're easier to spot.
 So we're going to have to discuss heroes as well. So it's hard to imagine one without the other, right?
 And the contrast will help us understand both. Now I don't know if the Marty McFly character played by Michael J. Foxx and back to the future was a hero exactly, but he certainly did some hero like things in the movie.
 You never thought you were going to hear me use back to the future to explain villains did you so villains and heroes. So some things he did he overcame obstacles he learned to care about others he stood up to some bullies.
 He saved his family's timeline. He taught others to be brave he rescued a woman in distress which would be his mom fun funky situations and that one there. He becomes a relatively better human and he leaves things better than he found him.
 So here's the question. Is it possible for us to aspire to be the same as Marty McFly? You may not want his name. You may not have even won his $10 haircut as he talks about.
 Is it possible for us to aspire to do the hero type stuff that he experienced in the movie? Well, as we get deeper into all of this I do want to point something out that's very important.
 When we talk about villains and we try to unravel what's really going on inside of them, I don't want you to think that we are excusing their behavior. So this is super important for you to hear.
 We're justifying villain behavior. That is absolutely not what we're saying. It's never okay to bull in abuse others.
 Bulling in abuse and people's lives and experiencing it alone as well. I can tell you that is never okay. There's no justification for that. So does that even have to be said? I don't know. It's a really good reminder. On the other hand, let's not pretend that we all haven't at some point tried to manipulate or to force or to put pressure on others to get our own way to get what we want it, right?
 So it doesn't mean that we've all been abusive or we've all been super bullies and beat people up and all that kind of stuff.
 Even if you just manipulated somebody to get your own way, sometimes that's a form of bullying in the process. So we all have done it, but there's a way out and it starts first with recognizing the unhealthy behavior, right?
 That's the most important part if we can't recognize the unhealthy behavior, then none of it really matters. So let me underline this statement from the previous episode.
 Self-awareness is. Self-awareness is the ability to observe yourself objectively and determine how your thoughts, actions and emotions do or do not align with your internal standards.
 So maybe your aggressions aren't so exaggerated like in the life of Bifth Tannen. Maybe yours are more microaggressions. Maybe they're more really super passive. Maybe they're massed or veiled comments.
 Maybe they're hidden by sarcasm or teasing. Maybe they're revealed by nonverbal gesturing. It doesn't matter if it's there, it's there. Maybe it's a little bit tougher to see than somebody coming up and being physically abusive to somebody else.
 But if the microaggressions are there, the character traits are there, then it's something we need to begin and find out. But if we're being honest, we've all experienced at some point in our life,
 pushing on somebody or pushing on others to get our own way, to get something that we want to be dominant, to be less afraid or even to mask or not deal with our own real feelings.
 Many times we see somebody who responds out of anger, frustration, manipulation, because they're not wanting to deal with the very thing that they're struggling with inside.
 How many times have you experienced that yourself? Listen, this isn't a show on judgment. We're not judging people here, right? That's not our purpose. That's not our focus.
 The goal is fresh to recognize so that we can make changes. If we need to dig a bit into our root system of our hearts, what do we discover? What do we find? What's going on inside of us?
 What's our heart really after, right? What is it that we're really longing for? So here's a secret. Well, it's not going to be secret after I say.
 Villains are really victims who've learned to turn their fear anger and insecurity outward. Think about it.
 There's no bully who just chooses to be a bully because they like being a bully. Now, some people believe that there are many bullies because they just like bullying people. What's the purpose of bullying?
 What do I need to bully somebody if I'm a bully? Because I'm insecure because I'm struggling with my own inefficiencies, my own self-worth, lack of self-worth, my own struggles,
 the my own lies in my head, right? Whatever it is, I'm struggling with those things. So let that sink in for a second. When you do look at a bully, really, they're struggling with insecurity. They're just responding in a less acceptable crappy way.
 Right? The funny thing is today, we praise victimhood and we don't realize that victim mentality is nothing but insecurity. It's the response of insecurity, but what happens when somebody's a villain?
 If it's on social media, it's becomes very acceptable, right? But if you're the one being bullied, then it's not acceptable at all, right?
 So their aggression is largely self-protection. Crazy to think about it. But that's what they're doing. You can also be a way of mimicking what they've seen or had done to them in the past.
 So villains are often drowning in their own self-suffering, right? Just like victims are as well. There's an old saying, hurt people hurt people, right?
 However, this does not excuse the behavior. It does not excuse the behavior. It only helps to explain the reason why it exists. And if we're ever going to solve stuff, we can't just see a behavior and call the behavior bad.
 We have to understand why the behavior exists in the first place.
 For all of those people that are pushing for no bullying at school, I can help you solve this very quickly. If you have a bully in elementary school, it's because they're being bullied at home.
 That person who's trying to rip control from other people is having control, ripped from their lives as well. If you see a young bully, I can promise you, there's an old bully, older bully in that bully's life, right?
 So just calling somebody bullying saying that the behavior is not acceptable is not enough. It's not enough. It's not enough.
 We need to help them to understand why they're bullying. Without self-examination, without owning and accepting our own false and failures, we're never going to grow out of being the villain into the hero that we're called to being both for ourselves, as well as for others as well.
 Folks, this is all the time that we have for today. This is part one on lies, villains tell themselves. So next week, we're going to hit part two and continue to examine ourselves and discover the lives of the tell ourselves.
 Hopefully this has helped you today. Take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]