 Untethering from the unhealthy emotions that are holding you back from making sound financial decisions.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business
 is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 We talked earlier this year about money and more specifically how money like your time has to be
 mastered and invested wisely.
 Now you have to employ them and put them to work for you.
 So episode 511 Mastering Tom and Money that was done in February is something you want to go
 and listen to. Now today we want to take a look at how money can tug at our heartstrings.
 Now there's a deep, rooted connection for a lot of people here and I completely understand that.
 We are emotional creatures and we tend to spend both our money in our time based on how we
 feel. Think about that for a moment. Is that true for you? Do you spend your money according to
 how you feel? Are you an emotional spender? Are you somebody who is always looking for
 using money to quote unquote better your life or your feelings?
 When it comes to time we all have the same amount of time but we tend to spend it in different ways
 based on our values and unfortunately based on our mood. It's the same with our money.
 Our emotions, our mood, our feelings can get in the way of mastering our money. This is deprooted.
 It goes way back to our upbringing. It doesn't matter whether you grew up with a lot or a little.
 Where condition to be emotional? If you grew up with nothing then it can become
 the goal so that you're finally worth something. Your worth will be so tight that I can absolutely relate
 to this in my early years. There was many, many years where we were struggling immensely
 for money and with no electricity and jacked up and government cheese and churches dropping
 food off on the porch which caused me to bust my butt. For people to say that people can't make it,
 that other people are privileged because of what they've got. Let me tell you, somebody who came
 from not only zero but a negative, somebody who came from literally, there were times I was
 washing my clothes on the front porch as a kid. Trying to take care of me and going to work, working
 to three jobs, going to school at night, listen, bust your butt. You can make it happen because of
 my situation of how I grew up. Unfortunately, money meant a lot to me and it took after making
 money and doing great. It took on smacking me upside the head saying, listen, what if I took all this away?
 What if it was all gone? For me it was a moment of, yeah Lord, I mean I would just, I just go make
 more money. I can do this. I can, I've proven that I can go make something happen but what God was trying
 to show me is how much value my money had in my life and praise God, He helped me to see that
 He's my value. Money is a tool. Money is a tool. As Elon Musk said, money is just information. It's
 just information that gets transferred. So if you grew up with nothing, then many times money can be
 your worth. If you grew up with something, maybe you had some money, some stuff, some things and it
 can become the thing that distinguishes you from everybody else. Keeping up with the Jones is maybe
 look different than your neighbors. Maybe the goal is to constantly, as Dave Ramsey says, going to debt
 by things you don't need to impress people. You don't like, that's quite often. If you grew up with
 everything, maybe everything goes handed to you. You got everything. Maintaining your status,
 maintaining your net worth is your focus. Maybe protecting the kingdom you built is your full-time
 occupation. Now these are just possibilities. Maybe this is where you come from.
 They tend to be common. Maybe you don't experience that. Maybe you came with a lot and you don't care.
 It all depends on where you come from. The point is whether people have got it all or they've got
 nothing at all, money tends to be an emotional thing. Now money itself is not emotional. Money is a
 moral. Maybe a better way to say is that we as people get emotional about our finances, it's tied
 to our hierarchy of needs if you will. It seems like safety and security. The problem is that it
 quickly turns into status. We often and wrongly connect our substance, our resources, our assets,
 to our self-worth. Not only our net worth, but to our self-worth. The value of things around us,
 and what our bank statement says, tends to manipulate our value. Think about that for a second.
 Because from there, it's downhill. Money becomes an emotional comfort or for some people
 a discomfort depending upon where you are. To our personal worth, our emotions can actually begin
 to manipulate our spending and then a vicious cycle gets created. If you are an emotional
 spender, then you have to recognize how much money is tied to your worth. Now again, I can tell you,
 having grown up with not much at all, when I got older, gaining as much money as I possibly could
 was super important. Stuff has never really been that important to me. Gaining stuff hasn't been
 a big priority. I'm not big on stuff. I like stuff. I enjoy stuff. But if it's not something I can use.
 If it's not utility, then it doesn't have a lot of value. I enjoy nice things, but truthfully.
 I've been on both ends of the spectrum. No money and good amount of money. I'm really in that utility
 zone. If I can use it, I like to have whatever it is, be nice, work, operate well. That's great.
 But really, my focus having gone from both ends and being smack-dramed by God, my focus is more on
 what can I do with it? How can I use it? It doesn't mean, I've gotten to this great place with God
 of going, he's my comfort. He's in control of everything. If he wants it all gone, he's going to take it.
 It'll be gone. It doesn't matter. I can't protect it. I think I know for a fact. So many folks get
 in this place of thinking that they can protect themselves with plenty of money. If God is not
 wanting you to have it, it doesn't matter how much you make he will take it away. You will be
 surprised at how fast it goes. Being in a place of recognizing he is your provider of everything
 is colossally important. Let's just keep that in mind. If you do not understand, he is life.
 He is provider. He is provision. He's the one who allows you to have what you have. Many times,
 he's the one who gives you what you have. If we do not understand that and have that as a foundation,
 then we will tend to make money something that we identify with, something that are worth
 as time to, and something that we try and self-protect with. I will make enough money that I can
 protect myself from any bad situations. You can't, if God wants you to walk through something painful,
 you're going to walk through something painful, it just doesn't matter. So it's been said that money
 doesn't have a motion, so it will get up and leave you in a heartbeat. But as emotional beings,
 we tend to be tethered emotionally too money. How do we disconnect from our money? That's a great question.
 That's a question that we all need to be asking and make sure that we are not emotionally handcuffed
 to our money. Let's get into this. One of the starting places that we refer to most often is acknowledging
 the reality and the gravity of our situation no matter what the situation is. Today we just
 happen to be talking about money. There's something powerful about confessing what's happening.
 So let me ask you if you've ever been in one of these situations and maybe you haven't, but these
 are decently common. First situation every time I get a paycheck, I go into panic, wondering how I'm going
 to make ends meet. Second, when I get bills in the mail, I tend to ignore them because I don't want
 to face the reality. Man, I know way too many people that that's their reality. They don't want to
 see bills because in their mind that they can avoid them, then something is going to write itself.
 I don't know. Another situation, I'm so attached to my bank account that the closer my balance gets to zero,
 the worse I feel. Folks, we are going to have to wake up to the fact that we may be believing some
 lies about money. Those lies that get us into ruts, those ruts that become habits for us and those
 habits that rule our lives. So here's my question to you. What's ruling you in the area of finances?
 And before you say, "No, I know a bunch of you are relating to this, you can understand it, you get it."
 But I know there's a bunch of you out there that are saying, "Oh, that is not meet all Chris. I have
 no emotion to money." Well, I want you to just think about it for a second. Is it possible at all
 that you do have an emotional connection to money? You just haven't recognized it yet?
 So just kind of think through that. Again, a lot of this probably began when you were a kid
 and grew out of it in your childhood. Some people did. Some people have not. And by the way, if you're
 a parent, then do your kids a favor and help them master this now, help them now, do not be emotionally
 handcuffed to finances. Understand, help them understand the importance of money. Right?
 Help them to understand how to use money. And that it's a tool, but that it is not something to
 be emotionally handcuffed to. Go back and listen to episode 515, what your kids need to know about money.
 Just do that. Just help them out. Help you out. Right? So first thing is, as we've got to recognize,
 are we lying to ourselves about money? Are we lying to ourselves emotionally about the importance of
 money? Second thing is, as we need to challenge for change. Take a look at the reality of how you feel,
 how you react. Your belief system regarding money and ask yourself, "Is this my belief system,
 my feelings, all this? Is it serving me well? Is this helping me to move forward or is it not?"
 Challenge your existing thought process, your current paradigm, if you want to
 to change your trajectory. What does it look like? Right? Some of you may need to go through a
 process like financial peace university. I am a huge advocate of FPU, financial peace university.
 I have had folks that were multigagelionaires that have gone through financial peace university and
 learned how to handle their finances better. Folks that were really crappy with finances that have
 turned their entire financial life around. I highly suggest it doesn't matter where you are.
 If you have not been through the funny thing, as people tend to think, "Oh, I can't go through
 financial peace university because then people think I'm broke." Listen, first off, quit worrying about
 what people think. Second, it's not a program for broke people. It's a program on learning how to
 handle your finances better, period. It doesn't matter where you are. If you're broker, if you
 got tons of money, it's a smart thing to do. Some of you may need to get a book and reorient your thinking.
 Like Daniel Appins book, Valshal Prosper, fantastic book, to help you understand and think about finances.
 Some of you may need to go through an immersive event like Next Level Life in order to
 uproot the weeds, the thought weeds that are choking out your fruitfulness.
 So an important thing is, challenge yourself for change. What can you do to change your current
 thought processes, your current feelings, your current expectations? How do you get you moving
 forward? Number three, face your fears. This next point is huge. It's something that folks rarely do.
 Let me put some emphasis on that. People rarely do this. Are you ready? You got to take action.
 Create a freaking budget people for the love. For the love. Create a budget. Yes, I said it.
 Total throw punch. I know, but you've got to get a grip on what comes in and what goes out of your account.
 This isn't difficult. Analysis is healthy. You don't have to stay there. You just got to understand it,
 right? Once you've analyzed your situation, then make the changes you need to. But budget,
 cut the emotional spending. Renew your mind. Change your perspective. Get help. Face your fear.
 But what's the problem? Some of you are terrified of a budget because it might show you where you're
 doing things wrong. Oh, no. Wouldn't it be better to see where you're doing things wrong than to
 hide from what you're doing things wrong? Some of you are so emotionally enslaved to your money
 in your spending habits that you're afraid of budget is going to hurt you from what you're being able
 to do that you're not going to be able to live the life you want to live. Folks, if you don't know how you're
 doing with money, how do you expect that you're going to keep living the lifestyle that you're living?
 Those longs don't keep looking at it. Chris, it's going to be okay. No. Get in a place where you can live
 unless and you make and stay out of debt and then you can do anything you want to.
 It is an amazing place to be alive. I want to have clients or family or friends that have gotten
 debt free and all their money that they're making is theirs that they actually put the effort in
 and got to a place of understanding where they are financially and then make changes.
 Because then when they call me up or text me or send me an email they're like, " Dude, this is
 what just happened. I just paid off everything yesterday. We are losing our minds. We're so excited.
 It is such a fantastic place because then I help them to understand you now own the very carpet you
 walk on in your house. No bank owns that. You can take everything that comes in on this next
 paycheck after covering the food and utilities and go below it if you wanted to. Don't do it. That's
 kind of I always tell people to take their first paycheck and blow it because then you realize how stupid it
 is to just go spend money. It's really powerful. There's somebody comes completely out of debt. But you can.
 You can if you want to and when people do it after blowing that check they're like, "Well, that was
 stupid. Now we're going to use the money that we have for something even more fun and more powerful."
 But here's the deal. You cannot break the chains of your spending habits.
 You cannot get yourself unhankuffed emotionally if you do not know where you are. Examining your
 spending habits with a measuring stick of a budget can show you where you're spending in order to be
 happy. Quote on quote. "Cut it out. Stop it. Quit the emotional spending. It's not making you happy.
 Buying something doesn't make you happy. Nothing can make you happy. Happiness is a choice."
 So if you've convinced yourself that you can buy happiness, man I'm in, that just shows me right there
 that you're not dealing with reality. Why? Because you haven't recognized yet that happiness is a choice.
 And buying something you may be happy for five minutes. But after that, then what?
 Buy something big enough? I can promise you buyers or morse is coming not long after that,
 suppose it happiness. And by the way, business owners,
 understand this, if you are emotionally handcuffed your financial situation,
 then you will be emotionally handcuffed to every business decision that you make.
 If you are not emotionally handcuffed, how much better decisions can you make? If you are emotionally
 handcuffed, guess what? You will make many decisions at a desperation. So consider these emotionally
 fueled habits and see where you are on this spectrum. This is kind of an emotional lip mistest.
 One, impulse buying. Do you experience excitement anxiety boredom from purchases?
 Two, jealousy, you see that new gadget and rush out to get yours. Do you need to keep up with the
 Joneses? Three, fear and anxiety. Are you being manipulated into hoarding, never taking healthy risks?
 Whatever your emotional attachment to your finances is, examine it.
 Number one acknowledge where you are, where you are, where you are, where you are,
 you are financially, where you are emotionally. Number two, challenge your thinking and your current
 paradigm. And number three, face your fears by taking positive, positive action.
 Now let me leave you with this thought, a positive action that can help you with money.
 This action will actually bring healthy emotions to your financial situation.
 Ready for it? Here we go. Express gratitude. Say it, write it. Tell someone, confess it,
 pray it. Express gratitude. Be grateful for what you have right here and now.
 You're listening to the show. You have the ability to do so. Be grateful for what you have
 right here and right now. Be grateful that you're making progress. Be grateful that you have good
 people in your life. Be grateful for a heavenly founder that loves you. Be grateful that you can make
 a change for the better. If you will focus on gratitude, then I promise it will change the way you look at
 finances. And by far, if you will recognize that God is your supplier, he's the one who blesses you,
 he's the one who takes away, he's the one, you know, he's wanting you to grow closer to him and recognize
 that he provides you with everything. If you will do that, it will change the way you look at every
 single thing you want. Well folks, that's all the time we have for today. I hope this information
 has helped you. I hope this helps you to really adjust the way you look at money money is information.
 It's a tool. It helps you to make transactions. But it will never. Money can never make you happy.
 Only you can choose buying something. Can't make you happy. The funny thing is, when you buy that
 thing, you choose happiness for five minutes, a short period of time. Which means that that choice
 was there all along. So hopefully this helps you today as always. Take this information,
 change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]