 We talk so much about the leadership crazy cycle.
 What that is and how leaders can get out of it coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCredo Show where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 Hey guys welcome to the Chris LaCredo Show. This is not Chris LaCredo.
 I feel like Brian I always have to say that when I'm on the show that this is not Chris LaCredo.
 As if it's not obvious to everybody. But this is this is Joel Fortner on Chris's team.
 We've got to be back on the show with my illustrious colleague Brian Alex.
 Deep in the heart of Italy.
 I get called lots of things often and that is not one of them. So thank you.
 Oh, it's so mysterious by me. So now I'm so glad we're getting together today.
 Chris is not having fun doing some other things. So Brian and I are jumping on the microphones and
 we always have a lot of fun together and hopefully this will be very beneficial and valuable to all of you
 who are listening. But today we are diving into a pretty common topic around our place and around our
 coaching programs and that is this whole thing called the leadership crazy cycle. And Brian,
 what do you tell everyone for those who aren't familiar with it? What is that whole thing about?
 Yeah, well, I mean that is what this episode is all about. So I don't want to do
 I don't want to do any big spoilers here. But yeah, crazy cycle is something that, you know,
 when I hear the term crazy cycle, I go back to late 80s and all through the 90s marriage counseling and
 a lot of, you know, especially moving into Christian circles. There were a lot of folks talking
 about how couples can get into a crazy cycle with just verbally and going back and forth and discussions
 that kind of thing. And it gives you this, you know, what comes to my mind? It gives you this idea of getting
 stuck in a rut somehow. Well, when we've come up into the last decade here, Chris has used this term,
 this terminology to talk about ruts that businesses, business leaders in particular, find themselves in.
 And so yeah, I thought let's take the time because it's been a long time since we've had
 an an entire episode dedicated to this topic of how to kill the crazy cycle. Let's spend the time digging into it.
 I'd like to just kind of peel back some of the layers here. Talk about what it looks like.
 Let's describe it. Give some of the warning signs. How do you know if you're in? And, you know,
 a lot of our business leaders that follow, they may be in the crazy cycle and not know that
 that's what it is and being able to identify it and acknowledge it as part of the process of being able to get
 out of that trap. And so that's what I'm hoping we can dig into today. And so Chris has said this in
 the past that task saturation is one of the fastest ways to leadership destruction. That is a direct quote.
 I don't know if even he would remember saying it or saying it that way, but that really stood out to me.
 He goes on to kind of unpack that a little bit. It leads to people drama and people conflict. And it's
 exhausting. Team members, not being productive and then you spend a lot of time doing other people's work
 because you don't trust them to do it or do it as well as you can. And this is a vicious cycle.
 And so this is one of the first earmarks that we kind of tear into when talking about the crazy
 cycle. So my first question up is is there more to it than just the task saturation part?
 What are the various components or earmarks characteristics here that we're dealing with?
 Yeah, there is a lot more involved. I mean when you get to the emotional side, there's stress and
 overwhelm and frustration. You know, a one way to tell if you're in the leadership crazy cycles that
 you're going through your day to day and you're trying to do more or you're going through your week to week.
 And you're trying to do more. You're trying to grow your organization, your hiring people.
 You've got problems that pop up that you need to solve. You've got a vision that you're trying to get to
 or you've got strategies that you've laid out. Say they're a new product, a new service or
 and you find yourself like, I don't have time. I don't have time. I don't have time. I don't have the energy.
 I don't have the energy. I don't have the energy. You're in the leadership crazy cycle
 because you're not able to get to the things that you need to be able to get to as a leader.
 So for instance, like when people start doing their new leaders or they start businesses,
 it's all on them. Of course, they're task saturated. And then they start to grow and take on even more
 task. And then eventually, leaders and entrepreneurs never make the transition very smoothly.
 If you will or as smoothly as you could when you're stuck in the crazy cycle because you need to graduate from being that,
 you know, this is my thing, this is my baby. And then I've got people coming around me to help me get this thing done.
 Your mindset has to shift to a we mindset and you have to become more of a leader than anything else.
 Because you've got enough money moving around and enough people moving around to have enough problems.
 And who's leading at all? Who's curralling it? Who's curralling the cats? And who is solving the problems that come up?
 Who has the time? If you're on the phone or you're checking email at all hours of the day, you start your day in task.
 And then you get through your day and it's like, man, I was really busy and I did a ton of stuff.
 But I don't know how much of it really added value or move things forward.
 You're probably stuck in the leadership crazy cycle. And you're stressed and overwhelmed.
 And then when people say, hey, here's things that you need to do in order to solve that. Well,
 I don't have time to do that stuff. You are in the leadership crazy cycle. And it's a matter of then,
 okay, how long are you going to let it last? And eventually, when do you decide to then do the hard work to change things?
 Yeah, it sounds like we need a whole other episode of, you know, the top 10.
 You might be in the crazy cycle. You know, might be a redneck if cut. Yeah, yeah, here's your checklist.
 Here's your checklist. Here's your checklist. If you tick all the boxes,
 yeah, just give up and go home. I'm sure some people probably feel like that because, you know,
 not even being able to implement some of the steps, the process is the hiring, whatever it's going to take.
 And we'll get to that in a few minutes to get them out of that cycle. If you can't even get there,
 you are stuck as Chris said in a vicious cycle. And, you know, so some of those earmarks that stood out,
 as you were talking, you don't feel like you have enough time. You don't have enough energy.
 You can't get to the things that you need to. And one of those things that leaders need to get to
 is to leading, leading others around them. And gosh, that's got to be such a hard moment to be aware of,
 to be cognizant of, to make that switch over when when you're an entrepreneur, you're starting out,
 you know, it's probably you, maybe a spouse or a family or friends or somebody close and you guys
 are just doing everything you get, you're putting everything, you know, 60, 70, eight, eight hours a week. And when
 do you start taking your eyes off of all the things that you know you can do because this is your
 dream, this is your baby, this is, you know, you're inventing the process, this is your walking to it.
 And then, yeah, when do you, how do you know when that time is? I guess that's something,
 it's going to be, you know, subjective. But how would you speak to a leader who finds himself in
 that position today? Yeah, you really can't start soon enough. It's that people just tend to not
 prioritize starting soon enough, getting everything organized. What I mean by that is documenting
 your processes and your systems, getting strategies that you're executing on, strategies this is
 big fancy word for stuff that you're doing. That's what it is. It's actions and tasks and goals that
 you have, but they should all be organized and written down and all be pointing towards something.
 That usually people just operate, they run and gun, it's exciting, they don't want to slow down the
 document stuff and write it down. That sounds too administrative or too boring. I mean, the highest
 and see personality styles are like, you know, hey, no problem. Like, I'm pretty good at that.
 The deez and eyes on the disc profile, if you're new to us, the disc of framework is
 are, is the what is our go to personality style assessment that we're very deep on here within our culture
 and that we teach in our coaching programs. But if you're that high dominant, high influencing person,
 that doesn't love the detail, you're going to operate. And it's like, I know what I'm doing. I
 know what I've got to do. You have a pretty small to do list. But you get to a place where you've got
 to stop and say, okay, everything's got to get organized. What is happening here? What is going on?
 How do our operations work? How does our customer surface work? What's our culture supposed to be?
 What is our sales strategy? What's our marketing strategy? What's our financial strategy?
 When do I make time for these things? Who does what? What does success look like with all of that
 stuff? What do teams look like? Who's leading those teams? What does leadership supposed to look like?
 What are those KRAs look like for those teams? What are meetings look like? When a one-on-one
 meetings happen? When do team meetings happen? When do tough conversation meetings happen? When do
 reset meetings happen? When do strategy planning meetings happen? And it's like we never get all that.
 Yeah. Because we're running and gun-in. Well, we've got to stop and organize the business.
 We have to organize everything that's going on. Then we can say, how do I take this slice of pie
 and put it over here? And now this team or this person owns it? And then I lead them and I train them and
 I set them up for success. And I do that with all slices of my pecan pie called my business. And that's
 the beginning of how we start to break this thing. Absolutely love pecan pie. That was one of my favorite.
 I spent several years growing up in the south and man pecan pie. I miss so good. It's so good.
 Yeah. Yeah. That's how we should look at our business as sweet and rich. And we divvy it up.
 And we give it to other people to take responsibility for it. I don't want to give it a way to do
 what's the problem? That's the problem. That's the problem. We've just switched metaphors here.
 But so my question is, does the problem just go away on its own? Is it a, if I, you know, I'm trying to
 empathize here, my nose to the grindstone, I'll hide, I see, I'm organizing, systematizing. I feel like
 I've got to handle there are days that I don't have a handle on it. I keep telling myself, this is just a phase.
 These are growing pains. It's going to pass with time. Is that true or false? If you choose to ignore it
 long enough, sure, you can say that it goes away. And because the business is going to close.
 Exactly. If you, because it's like, I'm assuming that we're actually trying to do something. You're trying
 to grow your business. You're trying to achieve goals. If you're doing anything at all, this thing is going
 to be in your face because you're going to, you're going to see, you don't have time for things or things
 aren't being well led. So you can't get traction because no one's leading things well. Or things are
 coming off the rails because we're not meeting on things regularly enough and having enough clarity
 on tasks and goals and who's doing what and then resetting and then figuring out, oh shoot,
 we had a miscommunication there. They went that way and I thought we were going this way. Well,
 okay, let's get everybody reorganized again. So it just creates all this chaos and all this frustration.
 So somebody's got to be doing stuff like that. Yeah. I imagine that for those that are thinking,
 well, I'm going to hire the staff that I need and get some of this stuff off of my plate. That's a great
 plan in theory. The difficult part, I think, where leaders can fumble the ball here,
 is that they do the hiring. They're paying out more now for that other person to occupy a seat on the bus.
 But then they struggle with the delegation process. They struggle with accountability. They struggle
 with really letting go of things. I know Chris is spoken of that in several episodes here just in
 the last six months. We've talked about that problem where leaders hold on to things probably longer
 than they should. And they never get to that next level of leadership where they're leading people,
 they tend to lead problems. And just going around putting out fires, I guess that still kind of in
 the crazy cycle is what we're saying. It can be a whole lot of it can keep you in the crazy cycle.
 There's always going to be unexpected things. There's always going to be problems. We're not saying
 operate. You're going to operate with perfection here. But yeah, when you start to hire people and bring them
 on, or you start to grow your teams, or you start to then try to raise up leaders, say you've got a
 well established business. You're trying to raise up leaders because you realize, man, I need leaders
 and more of a leadership team. That this assumes that you know how to lead pretty decently well.
 And a lot of people don't. Why? Because they've never been taught. I remember so long ago
 that I was early in my leadership career, working for the Air Force at the time. And I was put into
 this leadership role. And I went to my first formal leadership training. And it was so eye-opening.
 And it was so exciting. And I remember one of the things after that I had this really difficult team
 member at this one time. I didn't know how to lead her well. And it was just a very difficult person
 to lead. That afterwards, I'm never sitting there in that class thinking, my gosh, where was this information?
 Then this just opened my eyes that I now know exactly what I would have done with that team member.
 Where before I had no clue. So this is why we do what we do. It's all we do coaching programs.
 So we do because we're constantly developing and training leaders to actually do the people part.
 Task stuff isn't hard for most people. It's the people part of business. That's the hardest thing for leaders.
 Because we're complex. We're difficult. We're different personality styles. We have bad days.
 Some people communicate terribly. Other people communicate great or average.
 Or we have our preferences and tendencies. Or we have our own cultures that we're bringing into the
 business or I want things to go this way. And you're trying to lead all this stuff. And it's the people part
 become so difficult. And then let alone trying to lead out complex strategies or multiple strategies.
 And have the time to meet on that stuff consistently. Not meet once a month. And get to it when
 we get to it. But having consistency in your meetings and in your communication. So that we're proactively
 moving stuff forward rather than the leadership crazy cycle. Keeping you stuck in short-term tasks and
 fires and problems. We assume when we hire people that well, I think it'll go okay. And then so often
 it doesn't go okay. Yeah. Yeah. And I feel like we're pushing into the practical aspects here.
 I just want to pause and then we're going to get to that here about the midway marker through
 this episode. Chris was talking about it. You know, this crazy cycle will make you feel as a leader
 frustrated and overwhelmed. Maybe that's, you know, some people out there listening in leading their
 business. It keeps you from growing at the pace that you want. It has you working all the time
 and growing apart from your family, friends, you know, social all that kind of thing. And your mantra
 is, well, it's just easier to do it myself. It's easier to do it myself. What do we have? What do we offer
 as a team, as a company, that if somebody finds themselves in that rut right now? And we're going to
 get to some helpful things and practical things that they can implement in the meantime. But is there
 is there something that we do that we come alongside them to help them get out of that permanently?
 Yeah. So I would say, yes, we do. And let me get to some advice in just a second here. But it's not even
 really permanently. The crazy cycle, you can find yourself in in different phases and seasons of your
 business because it assumes sometimes you have growth and you find stuff creeps back to your plate.
 And there's too much on your plate and you have to go through the steps to get back to where you need to be
 or you lose people, you have turnover and task and things just around the team and you're starting over again.
 So the mindset is that you're constantly washing the leadership crazy cycle. So some things that you
 can start to do right now, leaders can start to do right now. Number one is get what's on your plate,
 get it written down. What do you do? Because if you're recognizing like, man, I've got to get
 stuff off of my plate. This is it's taking up too much of my energy, my time and my personal life. And
 I just need to get some stuff off my plate. We first have got to get your plate identified as to what what's
 on it, what all do you do? A lot of people will be like, oh, I know what I do. I'm telling you, if you
 haven't tracked it and written down, you don't have a great handle on everything that you do. I mean
 everything, not just, well, I know I do these meetings and then I check email and then I respond to stuff.
 I'm talking about what I mean, get detailed. It's like, kind of like you want to lose weight and people are saying,
 well, you need to track what your intake is. Well, I have a good idea, Joel, of like, what I eat and what I
 take in. You need to put some creams. You like to buy for breakfast. But yeah, you're eating your
 pecan pod instead of giving it away. It's like, it's you're, it's you until you really track it. I mean,
 I come into work all the time and people like, hey, how was your weekend? And they're asking me on Monday.
 And I have a pretty good idea of what Sunday looks like. But then it gets to Saturday, a whole
 two days ago, and I'm scratching my head. Like, what did I do on Saturday? And we want to say,
 oh, I know what I do. I don't need to write it down. Don't kid yourself. Write this stuff down
 because then you can start to identify what's on my plate and you can question, why am I doing this?
 And think about what do you pay yourself as a business owner? Or if you're a leader within an
 organization, what's your salary? What do you make? Break it out by hour. Is it, is I'm getting
 paid to do this task right here? And for this amount of money? Because it makes sense that you're doing it.
 This isn't going to be a, wow, there you go. I can get rid of everything that I don't like to do.
 We have to have a plan of proper delegation and proper is the key word there. But as a starting place,
 we've got to get things curalled and organized so we can see what we're dealing with first.
 So get your stuff documented. Then there are steps you can take after to figure out,
 who can do what, who can I train to do what? One of the limiting beliefs that holds leaders back
 though when it comes to delegation is undumping my stuff on people. You got to get over that.
 You've got to get past that. Are you're never going to grow in your leadership and you're going to hold
 your team back or you're going to hold your company back? Because you have a limiting belief that you're
 harming or hurting people by delegating things. You're not just saying here's your slice of pie.
 Boom, have fun with that Brian. There's a sit down. There's a discussion. There is a, what is your
 plate look like? What's your capacity look like? Let's discuss what this looks like for you to take on
 this task or this big initiative or a big thing that you tend to do as the leader, but you recognize,
 I really beloved to get this off of my plate because someone else could do it better and they actually
 I can actually go on to do these other things that we have no capacity to get to now.
 And so it's not like you're not going to do anything when you delegate stuff. You're always looking at
 what's on deck and what's going to come onto your plate now when you get stuff off of your plate.
 But also heaven forbid you drop from 60 hours a week to 50 in your work week. Like heaven forbid you do that.
 You don't have to feel every hour that may be great to have 10 hours back for your personal life.
 So that's a great place to start. Another place to start is a process called closing out your day.
 The gist is this managing tomorrow starts today. So at the end of your day today, you need to
 organize what this tomorrow look like. High performing people don't operate on just task lists.
 They operate with a calendar and they schedule stuff out ahead of time.
 And so there's the power of the task list of what am I doing?
 Prioritizing it to what's most important and then driving your time onto your calendar,
 telling yourself tomorrow, this is what I'm going to be doing. And this is what I'm doing on Thursday.
 And this is what I'm doing on Friday. And you're constantly managing your task list and your calendar.
 Like all the time, because you're constantly looking at what's priority, what's priority, what's
 priority that moves stuff forward. Other things get rescheduled. Other things get delegated. Other things
 may not get done, but that starts this afternoon. So my challenge to everyone listening is if you're
 not doing this, set up tomorrow for success before you leave work today or late tonight, whatever.
 Like what does tomorrow look like? What's your to do list look like? What is number one, two, three,
 four, five, and priority? Go schedule on your calendar when you're going to get that stuff done.
 This should be a daily ritual for all leaders. Yeah, it, you know what comes to mind is we do this all the time.
 We're taught to do this with our money. We think about the next paycheck coming up.
 Where that, those funds are going to go. We name every dollar and it's got a place, it's got a
 function, but we don't do this a lot with our time. And also the resource allocation, Chris could
 very well make it part of his KRA to clean the offices. And there's nothing wrong with that job,
 cleaning the offices it needs to be done. Is he the only one that can do it? No. Are there
 things that only Chris can do? Absolutely. And so then we want to look at, well, then what, where does it
 make sense that Chris spends his time? And where do we need to hire somebody else to do a function that,
 you know, they can do so that Chris can focus on the things that only he can do? That's that resource
 allocation, but then thinking about the time in advance as if it were budgeted because you have a
 limited amount of time in the day. And if you're given yourself eight, ten hours of a workday, how you're going to
 spend that. And I like what you're saying. It's got to be something. It's got to be a thoughtful process
 that we do ahead of time. Just like you don't wait for that money to arrive in your bank account.
 And then go, okay, I'm going to take all this out from the ATM. And I'm just going to walk through
 the mall and see where the money goes. Yeah. Just wing it. Just wing it. That is where we spend a lot of
 time in this trap. And getting out of it means putting a plan in place before the time is ready to be spent.
 And we do that the day before. So just to try to distill some of these things down to really,
 you know, crystallize some of the gems here. It sounds like we've got, you know, we've got some
 acknowledging to do. Leaders have got to be honest with themselves about how they're spending their time,
 their resources, how they're allocating things, they're thinking, they're organizing, they're planning
 in advance. If they are hiring to do certain roles, then they've got to do the training. They've got
 to make a good hire. They've got to do the training. And then they've got to let it go in order for it
 to really move off of their plate so that they can then focus. They can pivot, turn, focus on the
 things that only they can do as the leader. And they spend more of their time. And I am assuming
 this is the goal. Correct me if I'm wrong. That as leaders go through this process and like you say,
 it may be a battle that they have to revisit depending on growth and phase. But as they're doing that,
 hopefully as they're maturing, they are spending more time managing people than managing the crises.
 That's that's kind of the just of what we're talking about. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. And so when you,
 when you get a handle on your time and your task, where you start to move to in your leadership
 is looking into your organization more, looking at its health, looking at its culture, looking at,
 is everything happening correctly? What are results in every area? Are we hitting those?
 And if we're not, why? And let's discuss that and figure out whether it's a people problem,
 is it a process problem, is it a communication problem, is it a resource problem? But you start
 to go to the cliche, you start working on your business and working on your team. So when you're looking
 at what's like, well, you know, what if I don't, everything's running fine and everything's going well?
 Great. What are you going to go focus on? Because typically it's often going to be,
 how do you moving things forward? What marketing activities can you go do now as a leader? What
 sells activities? Or what are the things that, what task can you then just simply go on to do with
 your own talent? But the what leaders learn is that, wow, there is so much work here in terms of
 ensuring the team is set up for success and then growing and developing leaders yourself, because if
 you're not growing and developing leaders, you will cap your organization and you will not be able
 to grow any farther than that unless you have a business that you can automate a ton of stuff in
 and that's an entirely different story. And then you're also looking at what are the strategies and
 managing the strategies of your company like written down, detailed strategies of marketing strategies
 and sell strategies and operation strategies in customer service and looking into all of those and
 seeing is everything operating with excellence, spot checking things because you're looking for health
 across your organization rather than just assuming that everything is going okay and just taking a breather
 and being like, "Whoa, I don't have anything to do anymore, praise God." It's like, "Yes, there's
 time for that, but then you start to have to start to peer into your organization." When you get to
 this a place of leadership, this proverbial place I'm talking about, you're going to find yourself
 in a lot of meetings because high-quality meetings move your business forward. They solve problems and they're
 about moving things forward in your business. "Oh, I hate meetings." Well, you haven't learned how to
 probably lead them well enough yet. And there is a ton of information from our organization and many
 others on leading effective meetings and for me as a leader and as the president of this company,
 meetings are my favorite thing. I kid you not. I love team meetings and one-on-one meetings and special
 project meetings. I love that because to me there's its progress and its productivity and we're
 advancing things. But what makes those meetings work so well, the culture of our team, how well we
 communicate and work together and collaborate. There is it fighting and arguing and pride issues
 and people struggle in the right and people being negative and judgmental of each other. We just get in there
 and set like here's what we're doing, here's what we're talking about. We understand personality styles,
 so everyone's leaning in each other's direction and operating with grace and high levels of trust.
 And then there's clarity on what the meetings about. But this is another part of killing the
 leadership crazy cycle is do you run effective meetings? Because a lot of leaders come out of meetings
 and the visit clarity. What are the action items? Or leaders get a month down the road and say, "Hey,
 how are we doing with that project or that process we talked about?" People are looking at them like
 a deer and headlights. We didn't do anything with that and it's like what happened? Well,
 where it is too busy? What happened? We're not leading meetings well enough.
 That reminds me of a quote from John Maxwell. He said, "The greatest enemy of good thinking is busyness.
 Yeah, busyness will rob you of clarity and it keeps you confined." And so if you're a leader
 and you're wanting more freedom, greater perspective, all of that is on the other side of getting
 pushing through, getting out of the crazy cycle. And so as we're kind of wrapping up here,
 maybe there's a leader out there that saying, "Hey, all of that sounds great, I need some help
 to do that. Where do we point them? What can we do?" Sure. Well, that's what we need to get in touch
 with us. That's what our coaching programs are for. But if you want to find out what next steps
 look like and if you want to do some coaching, just contact us depending on where you're at. We have
 mastermind for presidents and CEOs and certain VPs and we have key leader program. That's for certain
 VPs against all situational or managers and supervisors and these programs are meant for us and our community
 of a leader community to come around you so that you can move things forward and I tell you,
 it's like, "I love what we do and I could talk about it all day, but I won't because I'd be annoying
 to everybody." But I struggle with certain things in my life. I struggle at times to prioritize
 stuff and that's where I need coaching and accountability and or at times I need coaching because I'm
 out of information, it's like, "I don't know what else to do. I'm not sure what to do." So we need the
 right information but then we need to have a like-minded community around you that gives you that
 motivation and that good information and that accountability that supports that helps you actually
 create behavior change because that's the thing. Business robes us of the ability to think enough
 and create new habits. So that's why things like closing out your day and the proper delegation
 process and that kind of stuff that we teach. This is about habit change and it's like, "Oh man,
 I'm too busy to be in like a program or do coaching." That's, "I want you to hear yourself like
 that your objection." It's like, "You should, you need to have time." Whether it's with a routine or some other
 team, you need to have time to surround yourself with people that are helping you create new habits
 that move you in a different direction. And so some people are like, "Man, they kill it. They read books
 and courses and they just implement all they need's the content." And that's wonderful. That's you.
 A lot of people need coaching and community and then they completely change their leadership game
 and take things to, as we say, around here, as we take them to the next level.
 Yeah. And it sounds like, I mean, if they're not there today, they could be there tomorrow again,
 based on the dynamic nature of owning and running a business. You're going to lose people,
 attrition, turnover, times change, products change, methodology changes, and with that, you know,
 processes begin to curve and then you find yourself in new routes that you weren't in this time last year.
 And so having a group around you with that accountability, other leaders that are going through
 similar things, maybe some are ahead of you in that process, behind you in that process, but everyone's
 able to speak into the situation that really gives you some clarity and great perspective. And that's where
 we find freedom from all of this. And headges against us falling back into that crazy cycle. I love it.
 People can go to christlocardo.com, click on what we do, find out the scenario, the coaching or the event
 that's right for them. We have an episode back in gosh, it was a few years ago now, episode 292,
 how to kill the leadership crazy cycle that offers a couple of really great examples. I think we
 talked about magnets on that episode and some others where Chris is able just to examine how they were
 at a certain point in their business and what it took for them to get out of that rut. That might
 be helpful to someone, but they could always shoot us an email here podcast at christlocardo.com to
 to get pointed in the right direction. But at any rate, I love that we found an excuse to jump on here
 today. And it was great to see again my friend looking forward to coming back to Nashville, hopefully
 at the end of this year and show up and see all of the great things that have happened. We have
 grown leaps and bounds and now there's a farm out on a ridge I hear. So I'm looking forward to seeing all of that.
 Awesome brother. We're great to talk with you. Thanks everybody. I hope this has been helpful and
 beneficial and just motivated you. If you're connecting with this, I hope that it's motivating you
 to be like okay, there are some point in time where it's like I've got to start working on some stuff
 and it's like I know that it can sound stressful and it can sound overwhelming to create change.
 And sometimes we just have to accept that. And there's sometimes there's just not a perfectly clean
 way to solve problems like the crazy cycle without it's like, you know what takes force,
 it's forced to and to change where you're at and you reach a place in time where it's like okay,
 we've got to bear down and do the hard work. So you can get to where you can be and where you need to
 be not only this does a leader, but just in your personal life as well. And so hopefully today's
 been beneficial hopefully it's been helpful to you. So Brian, great to talk to you. It was always my
 friend and we'll catch everybody later on. See you soon.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]