 How can we ever trust again after that trust has been broken as a relationship even possible after betrayal or deep disappointment?
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show where we discuss leadership and life and
 discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 We are back at it answering the questions that you have about life and business that you really want.
 So this time around we've got another how to episode. So today we're talking about trust
 after some things happened to break that trust. So I don't expect this to be a easy
 episode maybe for some people this is super easy but I believe the questions that Brian's
 joining me by the way. Brian Alex is in Sicily Studio. Brian welcome to the show.
 I should have shared that part first.
 Hey thank you. Here I am. I'm just watching the magic happen.
 That's exactly it. So Brian has got some Brian says he's got some easy questions for me today.
 So we'll see how that is. But here's the thing. Lots of people find it difficult to
 lean into relationships especially after they've been lied to or betrayed. We've probably all been
 there either on the giving or receiving side and I dare say a lot of us have not recognized
 that's how much we've been on the giving side. So sometimes we need to recognize
 what we do the giving as well. And it can be difficult to trust again. So you've likely
 wrestled with some questions like how do you know if someone can be trusted? How do you know when it's
 the right time, you know specific after a betrayal? What situations do you really need to avoid?
 How do you get your heart ready to be vulnerable again? How do you weigh the risks and rewards
 of trusting someone out? So whether in the workplace or in mainstream life, no matter what
 relationships or tricky to manage when you don't have trust, I mean I think we all get that.
 I think we all understand that. One of the things we talk a lot about with leaders, especially in
 Stratplan is, you know, if I can't trust you, I can't be vulnerable with you. There's no way I'm
 going to share my vulnerability with you if I can't trust you. So to help us wrestle with this problem
 today, I've asked our men and sister, Brian to jump back in. So he is in the virtual studio with me,
 Bonjourno Brian. I was going in your neck alone. Bonjourno.
 We're so Italian.
 Oh man. How much trust is your neck?
 I'd tell you well, without trust, you don't get very far. I can tell you that even over here,
 well, I should maybe say especially over here, everything's built on relationship and I mean the core
 of a healthy relationship is trust, right? I mean it trusts turns the wheels so to speak and without
 it, everything grinds to a halt. I came across this quote by this minister a few hundred years ago.
 Isaac Watts actually, he wrote some famous hymns, things like joy to the world and other very,
 very famous hymns. He said learning to trust is one of life's most difficult tasks. And I don't
 care if you've been on that giving side or the receiving side, it can be tough to trust again.
 And I'm guilty of both sides of that equation, breaking trust and having trust broken and man.
 I don't know why. Maybe we can get into that a little bit. Why is it so tough to trust again?
 Or maybe there's even for personality styles, different angles of looking at this and we don't have to go too far
 down each of those rabbit holes. But I don't know. Why is it so tough, Chris?
 Funny thing is, it definitely different personality styles have a tendency to trust more.
 But interestingly also when you get into the values. Like somebody like, I'm a very high altruist.
 As I teach when we're talking about values, the high altruist is usually the dormant to society.
 We trust trust trust trust trust trust trust because we want things to be good. You know, I'm also
 my highest as an ass on the disc. So we want things to be a specific way. We want things to be great.
 And then the thing that we miss out on is that we put ourselves in situations where we do get hurt.
 Now where we can't trust somebody. And we can have the tendency to be victims in those situations.
 Oh look at what happened to me. And it was in my early to mid 20s when I felt like God said,
 dude, you allowed it. He specifically used to do. Of course. You know, you allowed this to happen.
 Recognize that. You know, you have responsibility in this. And I think that changed my leading people and
 coaching people and counseling people ever since is oh, wait a second. I don't have to be dormant.
 And so, you know, I don't know exactly where we're going to go in the episode today. But I think it's
 important to recognize that yes, all of us have had our trust broken by somebody. And if we're smart enough
 and wise enough, we probably recognize that we have broken many people's trust as well. Right?
 That I think the sooner you can get to that place. You know, I always tell, you know, in staff
 meetings or devils or conversations, I don't have a problem saying, I have sin greatly. I have hurt
 people. I have done terrible things. I don't have a problem saying that. And the reason why is because
 the sooner I can get to recognizing I've done stupid, the sooner I can take responsibility for it. Right?
 It's when I don't admit that I've done stupid that I've hurt people, that I've screwed things up. When
 I can't get to that admitting it, there's no way I'm taking responsibility for it. I'm just going to
 keep sitting there and victim mentality going, what's wrong with me? And why does this keep happening?
 So. Right. Yeah. And I mean, gosh, we find these issues, these obstacles in
 whether it's in our personal private lives, whether it's at work. I'm not Irish, but I found this
 proverb, when mistrust comes in, love goes out. Man, that's just yeah, that'll stay. That'll put
 you back in your Guinness real quick. And then from, but Guinness doesn't go out, the Guinness stays right there.
 Well, I mean, that's what I understand anyway. Again, I'm not Irish, but in Steven Covey, coming
 over on the business side, he says when the trust account is high, communication is easy,
 instant, and effective. I mean, so again, about that trust being what makes the wheels turn in
 relationships. That's true, both in the office and out of the office. And we see both sides of
 that next level of lives and then in Stratplan. Yeah, gosh, it's hard to get that unstuck and rolling again.
 Once there's been a fracture, right? Yeah. And I will say, so we'll make a criticism here.
 I don't know if it's going to be any good. When we look at scripture, the funny thing about scripture is,
 well, it's not the funny thing about scripture is the funny thing about people is when you look at
 biblical definition of love, it's not feeling, it's not emotion. It's selfless sacrifice. And so
 interestingly, if we look at trust, when trust is gone, selfless sacrifices gone. I'm not going to
 selflessly sacrifice for you if I don't feel like I can trust you. Now, if we're being is close to,
 you know, Jesus is we can, then I'm just going to selflessly sacrifice for him, not for you, right?
 My focus should be on him. But if we just look at it through that aspect of, if love is selfless
 sacrifice and I don't trust you, then I don't feel loved. You know, I don't feel loved by you. Therefore,
 I'm not going to selflessly sacrifice for you as well. So just it's interesting. How important that is.
 Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Well, gosh, so many things we could get into lots of little rabbit trails
 to pursue, but we've got a little trust test coming up after the break and we'll dig into three
 top questions really about life and relationships in the private sphere, the private sector.
 But also, we'll come back around to business at the end. So something here for everyone.
 Sounds good. All right. We will hit that when we come back right after this.
 Freedom, it's so powerful. I don't rejuvenate and almost renewed. I just felt so welcomed and loved and
 accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment. So I was very comfortable there.
 That had a really big impact on me. It's going to be worth it. It's going to be hard.
 It's going to be even better on the other side. For me, it was just very refreshing. And I want to say
 life, you know, I would go to the next level of life again and probably again and probably again because
 it's so powerful. If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of
 self-awareness and freedom that they have or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like
 for you, then head on over to Chrissacordo.com/nextlevellife.
 [Music]
 All right, we're back and Brian, you got a trust test.
 I don't know if I trust you, Chris. So I'm going to take a little test and see.
 No, no. You know, the idea here, all of us have wrestled with this and you know, if you,
 if you're honest and you're looking at all of your relationships across the spectrum,
 that there are varying degrees of trust with just about everybody in your life. And so a little bit
 of a litmus test without a lift. But all of this is really just to help us see where we are
 in the spectrum of things. And maybe, you know, it'll come into your mind some different relationships
 as we go through this list. Here's a couple of the little questions here for the trust test. Do you
 frequently assume the worst about people going back to what you said about love? Love always believes the best?
 And so it's really a huge indicator. Do you frequent? I mean, you know, of course,
 sometimes we have a reason to assume the worst in certain areas when trust has been broken.
 And we're going to get to that. What do we do about that? We'll get to that in a second. But
 do you frequently just assume the worst about people that's a big one? You know, I'll jump in and
 then I know the goal was to run through these. But let me just kind of jump in on that one.
 In my younger years, late teens going up into my early 20s, I had been hurt so many times
 by loving and putting myself out there. And I won't go into the details of all, but you'd want to
 bag of popcorn. Let me just say that. That the victim mentality for me kicked in.
 I had been hurt so many times that I said forget it. People suck. I hate people. And spent time just
 being completely distant from people. I'm isolating all that kind of stuff. And I frequently assume the
 worst about people. Everybody wants to take advantage of me. Everybody wants to hurt me. Everybody wants
 to do something against me. And like I said on the front side of the show, it wasn't until God said,
 "You're allowing that you don't have, you could have healthy boundaries." You don't have healthy
 boundaries. I'm expanding on God's very simple. You're allowing us. I believe. I didn't have healthy boundaries.
 I had unhealthy boundaries. I was seeking worth in man. I was a people pleaser. I was trying to help.
 I was trying to love people well. The problem is, is I picking people who could see that and take
 advantage of it and then turn it around and to their own selfish gain. And it's a partying me
 in the long run. So I ended up in this place of being frequently assuming everybody's out to hurt me.
 Right? And once I finally realized that I'm allowing this with a lack of healthy boundaries,
 that I'm allowing this with people pleasing and seeking my worth and people, that really changed my
 life. And I really started to focus on, "Whoa, how do I get healthy and how do I not allow myself
 to be emotionally attached to people's responses if I help them? Great, if I don't." "Oh, well,
 I did what I could." That's that. But if I allow them to have any impact on me getting hurt,
 well, then that's my fault. And I need to say responsibility for it. So
 Yeah, no, that's so good. And if you haven't heard our episode on how, you know, the toxic
 people episode will call it that we can put the link in the show notes. Go back and look at that because
 what you just said a second ago is so powerful. We have to look at ourselves constantly be self-assessing.
 Where am I hurting? Where am I toxic? How do I get the help that I need? That's going to be huge
 for you being able to trust again. Here's a couple others. Do you often question people's intentions
 and how often do you automatically assume that others are going to let you down? This is again,
 just an indicator. Do you distance yourself from others in an order to avoid disappointment?
 I'm raising my hand on that one. Do you have a hard time asking other people for help
 inviting their opinions for critique? I mean, and obviously we got to be talking about people that we
 trust to invite them into that. But if there's an obstacle there, it should be waving a flag of
 indication. Yeah, I always tell people, listen, don't go seek critique from people who are unhealthy, right?
 You don't invite the person into, you know, into your emotional life of saying, hey,
 critique me on this. Oh man, you're going to get it. Exactly. But here's the crappy thing. When we don't
 trust people, we won't listen to healthy people. We won't trust healthy people, right? So if we don't
 trust, then you can be the healthiest person I know and I still don't, I'm not going to invite you
 in for critique. So good questions. Good stuff. Good tests. Well, here we go. Three big questions.
 You want to take the first one there? Okay. Let me look. Oh gosh. Yeah, this is totally easy.
 This is easy. Oh, my goodness. Did we start with a designer? So the first question is,
 "My spouse was unfaithful to me. Should I ever trust him or her again? Is there any hope?"
 Yeah. Yeah. So what I'm what I'm processing, what's going through my mind right now is I read
 that question is, is there anything behind this than just the answer that I need to hit? So I'm trying
 to go through, you know, that, wow, that is so not an easy question. Can you trust somebody who has
 done something so heinous? The answer is yes. Why is the answer yes because people have been able to,
 people have been able to change, people have been able to, so let me put it this way. Yeah. Okay.
 The people who are not going to be able to trust somebody who has done something that heavy duty
 is the person who can't see evil for evil. All right. Now I'm going to make this,
 this isn't, please don't take this as being simplified. This is just being broken down into,
 what's doable, what's not doable, right? So it's technically simplified, but the answer's not
 simplified. If I can understand evil and I can understand evil in clinician and I can understand
 that we are in an evil world and that we have evil in us. You know, scripture says from the moment we
 are a woken man has evil in clinician, scripture says that, you know, we have an enemy out there who's
 trying to steal kill and destroy. If I can understand that and I can understand that we can make
 the world's worst decisions and it's going to hurt people and it's disgusting and it's terrible.
 And I can see that somebody recognizes, you know, my spouse, if that happens to me,
 recognizes the just a massive thing that's happened and they repent and they are truly
 sorry, broken heart and all these things. Then yes, trust is absolutely possible. It's not only possible,
 it's happened many times. We have had, you know, there's a lot more people that do stupid in the world than
 we think, right? We think the ones that we know over the ones that we see in the public eye, people screw
 up all the time. We hurt people all the time. We do stupid all the time. We do things we don't
 intend to all the time. If I can understand that and I can understand that a person that I do
 care for deeply recognizes has moved in the opposite direction is seeking God wholeheartedly,
 then yes, trust absolutely is possible. And how can I say that? Because I know people,
 I know, I've been doing this for decades. I know people that have made stupid mistakes that have
 turned their life around and have gone ballistic towards God and that's what God wants.
 God doesn't sit there focusing on the mistakes of your past. He doesn't sit there going,
 yep, you've totally repented, you're doing a great job, you're moving, but don't forget, you did screw
 this up 10 years ago, right? God doesn't do that. Man does that. We do that all the time. And why do we
 point out somebody else's mistakes from years ago because we're struggling with us? We're struggling
 with our own worth. I know lots of people think about what we do for a living. I know lots of people
 that have made a betrayal mistake have turned their lives around become phenomenal. God fearing God
 centered people, but the spouse still couldn't let go, right? They've become incredibly
 trustworthy, amazing. And here's the thing, it may sound and listen, if you're sitting out there
 right now and you're upset at me because you've experienced some pain through this and you're
 like, Chris just doesn't understand, yes, I do. Trust me, I do. Like I say, the bag of popcorn from
 listen, trust me, I get it. I understand. If you're in that place of betrayal and hurt and pain,
 then hearing this is not going to be easy no matter what and you may not, you may not agree with me.
 And that's that's understandable. The thing that I'm trying to say is, I have done lots of stupid in my life.
 I have done lots of painful and hurtful things in my life. The last thing I want is somebody holding
 the things against me that I've repented of that I've moved on in. The things that I've done right,
 the things that I'm doing now, right? I am busting my butt to live a righteous life. And God is pushing
 me in that direction. The sanctification process is a process. It's a lifelong process.
 But if somebody wants to keep coming behind me and yanking me back down into the stupid that I've done
 in the past, then there's something that they are struggling with. It is not, don't. You're not
 hearing me say, oh, you didn't do something wrong. Oh, you shouldn't face reality that you screwed
 something up. That's not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is when you look at how God treats sin
 for the repentant person, it's move forward. Take responsibility, reconcile the best you possibly
 can with whoever you've heard or how many people you've heard, whatever it is, do the best you can,
 but my focus if this is God's speaking is that you repent and move forward, move in the direction
 of righteousness, right? So is it possible to trust? Yes. Is it possible to trust somebody who has
 not fully repented, who has not changed their focus on the worth? The person who is committed the
 betrayal is seeking worth in another human being. Is it possible to trust a person who hasn't changed
 that? No, of course not. Me is a people pleaser. Why did I get hurt so many times as a young person?
 Because I kept trying to get my worth for people. And so I kept doing the same stupid thing over and
 over again, thinking that I was going to get a different result. Can you trust somebody who has not
 become fully repented understands what they've experienced and moved in the direction? No,
 do you need to beat the living crap out of somebody who has? No, of course not. You're not doing
 any, that does not good whatsoever. So I'm hoping that I've just answered that question in a way,
 hey, I hope I answered it well, but be I hope that I'm being sensitive to anybody who's going through
 this. So hit me with whatever. Yeah, so nuanced there. And I mean, there's no one size fits all,
 but I love the larger category, the larger window that we're looking through is
 you know, it takes two people. It takes two people to trust. It really does. And somebody turning around
 from being the betrayer and the person who was betrayed, both of them have to want to accept reality
 accept the consequences and determine if if there is hope for them as a couple and move forward.
 And we've seen it happen time and time again, you know, for so many people that that I see over here,
 you know, I've been a pastor. I've worked with pastors and you'd be so surprised how many people fail
 in life. Oh, yeah. And you know, and so the dangers you feel like you're alone and nobody else
 understands and nobody's gone through this, you know, okay, we're not naive stuff happens and
 and that's not to excuse it, but we do need to see that larger picture, what's God calling you
 to and what's God calling you as a couple to and so I think it's beautifully framed like that
 good job. Let me throw it through. Yeah, it is. And it's so funny as you're talking through it,
 more nuance is coming out. Let me throw this in there. What I have suggested to every person who has
 butt right and is, you know, working like crazy to get on the other side of this and to, you know, repent and
 and be righteous, right? That struggles with a spouse who has not forgiven. This is super important
 and I cannot stress this enough. If you don't recognize the pain you've caused. Wow,
 but my spot, listen, it doesn't matter. There is no excuse. There is no, it, your spouse may have
 done horrid things as well. But the, well, they did this, that doesn't, that game doesn't,
 it doesn't, it doesn't play. It doesn't matter. It doesn't, whatever. Yeah. Until you can recognize
 how badly you've hurt somebody in that essence, right, especially when it comes to this level of
 betrayal, right? Until you recognize and help that person see that you get it. Here's the thing,
 you can have done all the great things moving in the right direction. It's best as possible. But if you
 never take responsibility with that person and go, I know what I did is disgusting. It's horrible.
 I can only imagine what you've experienced, what you've gone through, yaddiaddiaddiaddi. If you,
 if you can't do that, then you can't expect that person to ever trust you. That person, and,
 by the way, that person will probably hold this grudge for many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many years.
 Until they understand, it's not that you get what you did. That's number one important.
 Number two important thing is that you get how it hurt them. Yeah.
 No. Man. Have you got to that more nuance. If you're the person who's hurt and you're waiting
 for somebody to tell you how much they understand you've been hurt, you're wasting your time.
 You've got to move forward with your relationship with God and getting over it.
 If they can come back around and tell you and explain to you, fabulous, that's great.
 But waiting for somebody to be as sorry as you think they should be is a colossal waste of your relationship
 with God and your growth with God and your moving forward. It's a waste of time.
 It's that, you know, what we said, the old saying, bitterness is like taking a sign, I'd
 pill and hoping the other person dies. That's what's happening inside of you. You are just
 getting destroyed by bitterness and it's just the waste of time. So instead, if you're the betrayer,
 you've got to let that person know that you get how much they hurt. That will be a massive step.
 Doesn't mean that they get to pull you back down every two weeks, because they're still in it.
 We got to move forward. If you're the person who's been betrayed, you've got to understand,
 you took a sign, I'd pill. You gotta focus on it. It doesn't matter if that person never changes.
 Hopefully they do change, but you've got to get over the pain that you're experiencing so that you
 can become normalized. There is such a thing in your relationship with God.
 It's all that makes sense. No, it's so good. It's so healthy too. That's kind of the big,
 ugly elephant in the room and maybe one extreme on the trust spectrum here. The second question
 is a little more good. It's a good one. Easy question, by the way, that was that was it.
 We ended deal with that. We ended deal with it. Now that the big one's been dealing with, let's go on.
 Here's the second question. I've been in and out of relationships and, man, people are just
 fickle and unreliable. Is this all there is? You can kind of hear what's going on under the surface
 there. I am going to give you a gut punch. If this is what you believe, the gut punch is you're
 choosing the wrong circles. If you're either choosing the wrong circles, which is a big part of it,
 or you are colossally in victim mentality. If that is the belief that you have,
 chance, I mean, you're in victim mentality. Most likely, either way, you're in victim mentality.
 I'm a victim to these people in these situations. There's no sense about it. You're in victim
 mentality. But a good part of that can be because you're choosing the wrong people to be around. You have
 convinced yourself. You have the right circles. And yet, you just keep ending up with unreliable. People,
 all of you, people, please, are out there. You're making this mistake out of continuous basis. All of
 you, high-s, who are so loyal in support of people and just keep getting run over, you keep making
 these mistakes. So, our people just all unreliable and fickle, no, not at all. There's plenty of healthy
 people out there that are working their butts off to be healthy. But if you're not finding them,
 there's a reason. You're either choosing the wrong people to stick around, or there's another gut punch.
 This may be you. Maybe you're being unhealthy in the only people around you are unhealthy people.
 Right. If you are being really unhealthy, then healthy people may not want to be around you.
 You know, if you're constantly narcissistic and focused on you, or if you're constantly complaining,
 or you're constantly doing stupid, if you're constantly unreliable, you can't be shocked
 that you don't have reliable people around you. I can tell you that's not going to be one of my
 inner circles. Somebody is not going to be in my inner circle who's constantly unreliable.
 Somebody's not going to be in my inner circle who's, you know, I can't trust their word.
 I'll love him to death, but they won't be in one of my inner circles.
 Yeah. I, because for some reason, I can't stop thinking of meet the fuckers.
 Anyway, moving on, we have the right third. Which one part? Well, he's like talking about
 coming into the inner circle with him. All right, right, right. Yes, the family circle or whatever,
 circle or whatever. Oh, man. Well, the third question and final question here,
 I'm in a relationship with someone who seems to only have their best interest at heart.
 And what goes through my head when I read that is, you're in a relationship with someone
 and it feels like. And I use that very lightly, because I know how we talk about that will it
 feels like. It feels like they're always making a withdrawal. They always, they're needy or they have
 negativity or they're always pulling, but there's no, if I can say it just, it sounds really
 economic and transactional, but there's no deposits going on. They're always looking out for
 themselves and they don't seem to care about the other person. Are we in the same category as the
 question we just answered or where does that live? No, the man, I don't think we have enough time to
 hit every angle on this and I'm not even sure I can. So let's assume you're not, if you're married,
 then something that, you know, this is a commitment that you've made, this is a covenant that you've made,
 you've got to work the best you possibly can to, okay, gosh, let me back up even more. Let me ask this
 question, are you sure they're the ones that seem this one right? So step one aspect of this is
 are you a victim and you're saying that they're something, are you setting their reality and they're not
 actually this way, right? If they are you struggling with narcissism, are you struggling with being
 so selfish and self-centered that you want them to be this way? Now if it is you, well then you've got to
 get into a process as fast as you possibly can to try and solve this and understand where that's coming from,
 right? You know, because what is narcissism, right? Well, I think one of my
 easier definitions of narcissism is being so self-focused to the expense of others, right? I'm so
 focused on me that I'm focused on me to your expense, right? I'm willing to hurt you in the process,
 whatever, to focus on me and I have some of those in my life and it is the closer they are to the
 tougher it is to deal with that experience, right? Yeah. When somebody's willing to throw you
 under the bus at their own, you know, to save themselves is gosh, that's so difficult, that's so
 tough, right? So the questions are gosh, where am I? If it's you, you've got to recognize you're so focused
 on you and what are things that you're going to see when somebody has their own interest at heart?
 Constantly drawing people's attention to them, constantly telling stories about themselves,
 constantly one-uping experiences, constantly, you know, just in the, hey, everybody look at me,
 pay attention to me, this is about me, what can you do for me? There's all of the Mimi Mimi Mimi's, right?
 Those are easy to recognize. One that's not as easy to recognize as narcissism is throwing people
 into the self preservation. I'm going to self-protect and I'm going to attack you, you know, so I'm
 going to flip the surround. I may have done something stupid, but instead of taking responsibility,
 I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to control, I'm going to manipulate,
 I'm going to go ballistic, you're the problem, you're the problem, you're the problem, you're the problem,
 even though it's incredibly obvious that I'm the problem because I can't just self-sabotage, it's like a
 double, a double way in here. I mean, it's even so I can't stress this enough, it's self-sabotage
 to the point that it's hurting somebody else. The intention is if I can hurt you so that I can self
 preserve, you know, so I can defend me, I'm okay with that as long as I'm protected.
 That's so think about that. It's such a level of self-sabotage that you will destroy relationship
 with someone or many people so that you're self-protected. Oh my gosh, it is one of those things that
 I get it, I can understand it, but I don't understand why it continues. And it's something that in my
 decades of coaching and leading people, it's one of the tougher things to turn around. And I believe
 I've come into some really good information lately, that points me to the reason why and I believe
 when you look at those types of levels, they're usually very childish. So the response, you can be
 40 years old and have the response of a five-year-old. When we usually see people responding in
 that emotional behavior and that irrationality and that level of attack, it's usually when you see
 how it's done, you can look at a very intelligent person and go, you're responding like you're five.
 This is ridiculous. Well, there is ongoing studies that are showing that you can actually,
 so if you get into the limbic system, the amygdala is in the limbic system, the amygdala is
 responsible for response. And so a lot of times people say it's fear of response or anger,
 I believe it's all response, whether it's love or good response or going postal. It's this
 scale, but what we tend to see is a lot of the negative response coming out of the amygdala as well, right?
 So what they research is showing is that you can store in your brain the ability to respond
 in a way that was created when you were younger. So in other words, without going crazy and depth on
 what this means to simplify it, I can have a tendency at 52 years old if something happens and I go
 straight back to when I was six and the same type of thing happened and it was so bad that it burned
 into my brain and obviously this is not technical speak, but burned into my memory this response
 that I had, I can go right back to that response at 52 years old. Right? And so we see this from time to
 time where the emotional age of the response is really young. And I've been seeing that for years
 and I have not been able to put my finger on it until recently where I feel like this aligns
 incredibly well and in some of the research that I'm seeing aligns really well that the super intelligent
 mature adult human being is responding so young and it just doesn't make sense. Right? I don't
 get it. Well now it's starting to really make sense that the brain is recalling an emotional response
 from a young age and it's forcing it to happen. The crazy thing is, as I've had conversations with people
 discussing the emotional age side of it, outside of them losing control. Right? And they can recognize
 it. They can recognize that yes, I was acting like a five-year-old. I was acting like a six-year-old.
 Do you recognize that this is something that happened to when you were younger? You're bringing
 something forward and it lands very well. People are like, oh yeah, because of this, this, so do you see
 that your response was that of a child and man after being able to walk through this process.
 If everything aligns and again, you have to have been working on stuff like this for a very long time
 to see this and recognize it, then I haven't seen anybody go, no, that doesn't align at all. So
 does all that make sense? Questions, lots of comments? Yeah, yeah. No, it goes right into how we talk
 about root system impacts, core impacts from our past, all of that. Gosh, there's so many different ways
 we could go and new ons is here to all of that. I think we've done a good job of covering on a broad
 stroke. We wanted to get in a little bit to the business side, but I think we're running out of time
 here. I just want to mention this and passing from Peter Drucker. He said, leaders understand their
 job to make the team function. They accept responsibility and don't sidestep it. This is what creates
 trust and what enables you to get the task done. I just say, man, I gosh, for the business side of this
 and that's something you even mentioned at the beginning that you model here and it's something
 that becomes part of the culture is we're able to build trust among team members because we accept
 responsibility. We don't sidestep it. We call it out, point at it. We're transparent with it. And
 this is what enables us to get the task done. There might be some leaders out there struggling with
 that on their team. Maybe a team member broke trust or you know, and we're going to get into some
 other topics here as we go through the spring about gossip and unruly team members. So be looking for
 those episodes. But yeah, this can be a huge issue inside of the business as well.
 >> Yeah, let me just quickly throw on that because you're right. I mean, I could be a whole
 other episode. So let me just quickly throw on that. The context that you just shared is maybe somebody
 broke trust in a business setting, right? What if somebody is one of the people that it's experienced
 one of the three questions that we've had and they're struggling with trust is with people period.
 So maybe, if I'm struggling to trust you, Brian, but you've never broken my trust, what what do you
 do with that? This is why it's so important to understand the trust factor and how much that affects
 things. If I can't trust people in my personal life because I've been, you know, just steam rolled over
 and I've experienced just the worst crap in my life and maybe I am being a victim, you know, as well.
 But I'm going to carry that over into the business place into your business, you know, where I work for you
 and you're expecting me to trust these people that I work with and I can't get there, right? So
 it's even more vitally important to understand. We're not even talking about a one to one relationship
 when it comes to the workplace because we all bring our root systems into our place. And so I may not be
 trusting the people, the very people you're paying me too trust, you know, to work with on a daily basis
 because of the stuff that I experienced in my life. Yeah. Yeah. And just to put a nice tidy bow.
 Here's something like the bow is like just in four two different directions right up. That's just a
 mess throw at up. The bow's going to be nice and tidy. It's what's under the bow. It's a mess. It's so nuanced.
 I mean, we're trying to tackle some really big things here. But this is this is something that I
 I think and, you know, feel free to push back. But fear leads to more fear.
 Yeah. Trust leads to more trust. Love leads to more love. And, you know, you've got to start somewhere.
 If you're struggling out there trusting others, focus on yourself, get yourself healthy,
 recognize where you're being fearful. And it's not based in fact in reality.
 And test the waters. You know, Ronald Reagan's solution was trust, but very well. But verify exactly.
 Yeah. Folks, if you are struggling with trust, and you're you're you're listening to a person,
 you know, this show is based on all of the things that I've screwed up in life and got his graciously
 and mercifully taught me how to fix things, right? And so the things that we teach are not, oh,
 we don't make mistakes. No, we screw up a lot. We just learn how to fix them. We learn how to do something
 about it. You're listening to the person who has experienced the same trust issues you have.
 How am I able to trust people now? Because I have learned how to solve that. I've walked through
 processes and this is the stuff that we teach, especially through next level of life. But I've learned how to
 to not be a victim. I've learned how to take responsibility. And I've learned how to not emotionally
 handcuff myself to my worth being another people. So you've got to discover, you know, where you
 were truly come from and how not to, how not to be emotionally handcuffed. So good stuff. Well, Brian,
 thank you so much for joining me again. Easy peasy. Easy peasy. Somebody before we start to show.
 We got three easy questions. I do think those were great. I think those were great questions.
 And folks, if you're listening to this and they're still some struggle you're experiencing,
 podcast at christlaker.com. Send a question. You know, let us know. Because we try as much as
 possible to answer this in as well, rounded ways as we possibly can to make sure we cover everybody
 in what they're experiencing. But I'm sure that we were missing something. So if you got something,
 let us know. Brian again. Thanks for joining us. I'm glad you're joining us again soon on another
 episode. We dive into more of this stuff. So can't wait. Folks, that's all the time we have. I hope this
 is helped you. As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]