 On today's episode, we'll continue to explore the fascinating world of personality styles
 and its impact on our daily lives.
 We'll dig into the high-eye personality style.
 That is coming up next.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today we are diving into the world of personality styles within our team.
 Specifically, we're going to explore the high-eye personality style and its impact
 on our teamwork dynamics.
 So, let me kind of just explain briefly about the high-eye personality style.
 Now, the high-eye personality style is that influencer.
 They're the very outgoing people person.
 The kind of people that love people, high-eye love people.
 They are crazy about people, they're crazy about being around people.
 They have no problem being this in our retention.
 They're usually have a very upbeat personality style.
 They're very accepting.
 They are very encouraging.
 They're social, they're adaptable.
 They're very enthusiastic, very outgoing.
 So, when you look at the high-eye personality style,
 there's somebody who has a lot of charm.
 They're incredibly expressive.
 Unlike the S and the C, the I and the D are very fast-paced.
 They love things moving at a faster pace.
 They don't like to sit down, sit around, wait on things.
 They like to keep things moving.
 So, when you see somebody who is of the high-eye personality style,
 they're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes
 being sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're not going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They're going to be the person who likes sitting in the back.
 They don't want to hear even the things that I just shared. They don't like that.
 So let's kind of jump into some of the things that are negative about the high-eye.
 Some negative characteristics are lack of listening.
 And again, I laugh at this because one, I am a high-eye or I usually say, "I are one.
 I am 67. I have a lot of eye."
 But I'm a higher-s.
 So I'm a really good listener. I'm a high altruistic.
 That's my highest. So listening is not usually a struggle for me.
 But for the high-eye, which that's their highest, then they tend to struggle to listen well.
 What do I mean about that?
 Most high-eye in immaturity are waiting for you to take a breath so they can respond to the thing that you're saying.
 So that they can speak into it from their perspective, from something that they've experienced.
 I could tell you, I've done it many times in my life.
 It's something that if they can speak to you about this thing or on the subject or have the answer,
 then they believe a lot of their worth is tied to that.
 And I'm going to say these are negatives because I believe they're negatives.
 But a lot of high-eyes, their worth is based on whether or not they are approved of, do you approve of me as an individual?
 Do you, if you approve of me, then we can continue to keep this connection that we have.
 We can continue on this relationship.
 A lot of high-eyes, unfortunately, cannot stand being rejected.
 A lot of high-eyes, unfortunately, struggle with feeling attacked when the situation, and this is, you got to hear what I'm saying.
 When the situation appears to have the same pressure as some time in the past that they were attacked.
 So it's not uncommon. I remember at an event years and years ago where I had a high-eye going through next level of life.
 And they struggled and attacked me.
 And I was like, you know, okay, and it's like, well, you're attacking me.
 And I'm like, no, this isn't attacking.
 Well, you're yelling at me. I'm like, this isn't the volume of yelling at you.
 Well, you're going to yell at me.
 Nope, I have no intention of yelling at you at all.
 Well, it feels like you're going to yell at me.
 And so, as this person went through this process, I said, hey, question for you.
 When you screwed things up in front of your dad, how did he respond?
 He'd rip my head off.
 Okay, does this pressure feel just like that?
 And they just kind of sat back and were like, oh my gosh.
 Yes, it does.
 It absolutely feels like that same thing.
 Okay, am I doing the same thing your dad did?
 Oh, my gosh.
 No, you're not.
 Okay. Well, then do me a favor as we walk through this process.
 Don't apply to me things that you experienced with him.
 Until you see me do it, you know, don't dump that on me.
 If you can challenge my character in this process of what you know about me,
 then it will help you to not feel the feelings that you're currently feeling like that you're going to be attacking.
 You're going to be yelled at, you're going to have your head ripped off, right?
 And so for me, that is probably the basis of the reason why I don't generally come to next level life.
 And I say generally, there's plenty of eyes that have come,
 but I dare say it's not 25% of the over 500 people that have come through.
 What's the concern?
 Being attacked, hearing negative things, being rejected, all of those things are negatives.
 When they struggle heavily, that's when you'll see them attack somebody else.
 That's when you will see that they, their emotions really come out strongly about, you know, feeling like they've lost an incredible amount of worth.
 You might find that they start to really struggle with the need to gossip about a situation.
 And gossip about a person. There's this thing inside where they feel like they are redeeming themselves,
 you know, not losing as much worth.
 And it becomes a painful, difficult thing.
 Again, these are, as we've gone through every single personality style,
 we see that there are positives and there are negatives.
 Why are we going through this?
 So that you either as a high-eye or as a leader or as a business owner or as a spouse or as a child parent.
 You understand how to understand this personality style and lean in the direction or help them in the process, right?
 What does it look like?
 Another thing that is both a positive and a negative.
 High eyes can be incredibly charming.
 Now, it can be a positive because many times a high eye can bring, you know, what appears to be happiness to your day.
 It can be their, their energy, their excitement, their enthusiasm.
 Absolutely can rub off on you if you're somebody who chooses it.
 Now, obviously nobody can make you happy.
 But many times around high eye people, some of my favorite favorite people on the planet, some of my best friends are high eyes.
 And I love being with them. I love hanging with them.
 I love spending time watching their energy, watching them, you know, operate in life.
 It's fabulous, right?
 It I tend to gain some energy from it.
 Now, the opposite, the negative is that high eyes can be charming.
 But on top of it being a positive, it can also be a negative where somebody is trying to charm you to control their environment, to control their situation.
 So high eyes will have a tendency to charm you so that they stay in control of whatever is going on.
 Now, this can be a negative as well because it can be very wearing.
 I know that while I can gain energy from a high eye who's positive and upbeat and enthusiastic and just great and loving life, that very same energy when it's focused at me,
 when it's focused on my approval, when it's focused on gaining worth from me, when it's focused on not losing worth with me,
 oh my gosh, it can be absolutely exhausting. It can be very difficult for me even though I'm a 67 eye, it can be very tough for me.
 Because that's not how I operate. That's not my focus.
 My focus isn't charming you to gain worth or trying me to not lose worth.
 So for me it can be very tiring when it's a non-stop process or when somebody is just really feeling like they've got to control a room or be sent to a retention.
 So as we talked to the high eye personality, I want you to know it's one of my absolute favorite personality styles. I love high eyes.
 Probably my favorite personality style combination is a high eye and high sea. I being the first and see being the second personality style. That's one of my favorite personality combinations.
 So if it sounds like I'm just you know, dog in the eye with this one, I'm talking about myself to an extent.
 And also it is something that the positive sides of high eyes, I think just bring so many people energy.
 Well, except for the high sea, high seas don't gain a lot of energy from high eyes. So again, super amazingly enthusiastic.
 Another thing that we do, I just said super amazingly.
 So many times the high eye will use exaggerations with their descriptions of things.
 You've heard me say on the show 14,000 times the phrase 14,000 times.
 I use that thing right there. That's 40,000 times I've run into that same problem. We can be very expressive. We can be, you know, we can over exaggerate things to an extent.
 So it's interesting to see that that is something that's a common thing with high eyes is that over exaggeration to drive a point home.
 It's not that the person actually thinks is 14,000 times, right? But even with my level of eye, that's something that, you know, I find myself experiencing in many times.
 If I feel like the exaggeration could be taken seriously, then I have to back out of it.
 I'm sorry, I really don't mean 14,000. What I mean is three times that's happened, right? So things to understand, the high eye super positive,
 super amazing person, fun to be around, fun in leading a project or people or a group, lots of fun, very social, very adaptable to what's going on, very enthusiastic,
 but also the issues that we talked about, they can take criticism incredibly personally and feeling like they're being attacked or feeling like, you know, that they're,
 even not being heard in a situation. So important things for us to understand if we're going to lead high eye, especially if we are the high eye,
 how are we going to lead the personality style? What does it look like in our team? You know, how do we help others to lead in their direction as well?
 So what are some ways that we can work with the high eye personality style?
 Is that you have to think about when it comes to that high eye personality? Is what do they need to operate well? And whatever it is that they're doing.
 Like if you're going to be leading or even if you're working with, maybe you're up here working on a project or something, and as I go through this, if you're the high sea, you might be going, oh my gosh, I just can't do that. Yes, you can.
 You want the high eye to lead in your direction. You can do the same thing, right? If we're going to make people successful and set people up for success, then we have to take the responsibility of leading in somebody else's direction.
 Well, they should lead in my direction too. Yes, totally absolutely. I completely agree.
 But what do they don't? Right? Does that mean you just give up your goal is success, right? So if we're going to communicate with success and set somebody up for success and lean in their direction, even if they're not necessarily leaning in yours.
 So thanks to be thinking about how we say it is okay to have a couple minutes of just random, jovial conversation with a high eye before you get into the deep stuff, right?
 The high eye if they're entering your brainstorming session or meeting or conversation, they're not walking into that situation going, let's get to the details.
 I'm ready, let's go. They just don't. They're excited to see. They may be nervous to see you, but either way, they're coming into that situation operating with emotion.
 That's where they start, right? And they will probably be there for most of the discussion. I'm not saying then I'm going to get to their logic aspect, but there are people people.
 So they'd love to be able to operate this meeting, discussion, whatever it is, project on a very social aspect. I joke about how, and the personality styles video that we have about how high eyes of the only people who come to work.
 And between eight and five, they just want to talk to people, but five or one when everybody's gone, they're like, okay, I guess I better get some work done. They're like, why would we not just sit and talk to people? They're here, right? I can do work afterwards.
 And that's joking, but it has a little bit of truth to it, right? So make sure that you're expressive yourself.
 Make sure that you are being personal, make sure that you try, and always ask them, how is the weekend, how is their dog doing, how is their vacate, whatever it is, try to show that you care about them, try to show some interest in them, try to have a chat, even if it's something that you're struggling with and you're working on it yourself, but show that you care, don't do it as a, you're checking off a task, show them that you actually care about them.
 What does it look like to say, you know what, I want to find out about this person's weekend or, you know, how their mom is doing, I heard that she was struggling and then the hospital or something, you know, find out something about them show them that you care.
 The worst thing you can do is make it look like you're doing a task and getting to know them, the high eye will see that in a heartbeat, right? And then they're just not going to trust you at that point.
 So when it comes to getting into the details of whatever it is you're going to talk about, understand that another negative about high eyes is details are usually not their strong point.
 They can encourage people to go do the biggest project you've ever had, but they will fail in getting the details to accomplish it. Why?
 Because details just aren't their focus.
 They're just not, it's not where they are. It needs to be.
 It should be, but just make sure that as you're leading them, make sure that you're not giving them too much of the detail at one time.
 Instead, what I like to do is give it to them in pieces and in chunks.
 And then if I know that the person may be struggling with the details, I'll ask them to repeat back to me.
 Hey, tell me what it is that I'm asking you to do. Now, the high eyes can go, I got it. I got it. I'm sure that you do. I want to make sure that I communicated well.
 And then I'm setting you up for success. What is it that you're hearing me tell you that needs to happen or what are the details of this specific situation or or.
 As I do that, then I find out one of two things or I might find out both things. Maybe I didn't communicate well enough to the high eye.
 You know, that's always heavily a possibility that I'm the fault on the problem.
 But then it also helps me to find out, are they actually listening? What things did they miss? What things did they not get?
 And I can probably promise you that there's a really good chance if you're talking to a high eye, they're not taking down notes.
 I can't tell you how many times I've said to a high eye and this was me in my early days. I didn't have a pen.
 And somebody say, hey, here's some direction on this thing and I'm like, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah,
 And somebody say, hey, here's some direction on this thing and I'm like, ah, ah, ah, and like are you going to write it down? I'm like, I don't have a pen.
 Why don't you have a pen? You should. You should be taking this seriously. You should be writing down the details.
 So it's funny. Again, as an ADADS, something that I do a lot of is I have checklist. I am huge on writing down the thing I need to do.
 And then getting to the place I get to cross that off. So it wasn't difficult for me to go, wow, I'm actually affecting myself in a negative way.
 I need to actually write this stuff down and make sure that I'm, you know, getting things done very well.
 So with that being said, it's okay to ask them to repeat stuff back to you.
 Don't just make sure that you're not overwhelming them with too much stuff that they all of a sudden start to drop details, right?
 It's also possible if you absolutely need to do this, something I've done many times in the past.
 No, I shouldn't say many times. Something I've done a few times in the past is I've had somebody afterwards email me back all the things that they heard me say.
 All the things that they need to do and they need to accomplish. And that helps you to know whether or not they've got all the information.
 I would say, please use that as a last resort. That's, you know, not really treating somebody with dignity.
 If you just throw it out there, just throw it out there.
 Instead, last resort, I'm talking about somebody you're really struggling with and you're not sure that they're actually going to accomplish it.
 So other ways to work with the high, high personality style, allow them.
 And my gosh, recognize the benefit of the high enthusiasm, recognize how great it is to have somebody bringing energy to a team.
 Now, do you want to high, I'd go lead a bunch of high seas probably not. It's not going to work out very well, right?
 They're just going to, you know, think they're all full of fluff, right?
 But it's still great to have a high eyes energy going into a project going into planning something going into brainstorming.
 Just allow that to happen, but also understand like some things that, you know, I will say if I'm sitting in a room full of high eyes or if I know that I've got some immature high eyes as I'm going into like a brainstorming session or Q&A or something like that.
 Sometimes what I'll say is, hey, guys, it's not important to have the first answer.
 It's important to have the best answer. That's what our goal is to get to the best information, not as a judgment, not as a who you gained worth.
 But in, hey, how do we all get the best information moving forward?
 So if they can hear, it's not the best thing to just have the first answer because many times the first answer will be a high eye.
 Throwing something out as fast as they can and then it has absolutely either nothing to do with what you're talking about or it definitely did not help the situation.
 You can see that a lot, right?
 But if you'll help them to know, hey, it's the best answer that I'm looking at.
 I'm looking for, I want us to get to the best information so that we can go accomplish this.
 Then you will find that they will maybe verbally process through, you know, what could it look like until they get to a really good answer, which can very well, you know, be a benefit to your brainstorming.
 Right? Because many times if they will talk through it, they could get through it, they could get to really good information.
 So allow them to be, you know, expressive, allow them to bring enthusiasm to the environment, you know,
 make sure that you are recognizing them for that enthusiasm, you know, that you're helping to point out that they, that they have a great energy.
 You know, I love the way that you've tackled this, I love the way that you've, you know, your positive attitude towards this thing.
 So help them to understand how you feel that, you know, the aspects of what they're doing that's good or okay, right?
 That you feel about that, that way that you feel like what they're doing is okay.
 The worst thing is, if they never get any recognition, then that's when they're going to struggle, right?
 They're going to receive it as a criticism. They're going to receive it as a rejection.
 If you shoot down everything that they say, then they will absolutely receive that as you attacking them.
 So our goal here is to work with them. It doesn't mean that you can't have side conversations asking them, "Hey, I noticed this happened during that meeting,
 or I noticed this happened in that brainstorming session. How do we fix that? How do we adjust that? You could always have those types of conversations, right,
 to help them to get to a place of recognizing, you know, some of the negative things that they're bringing out in meetings.
 But again, you notice everything here is about a positive attitude, and then making sure that they're getting to the details of whatever the thing is that you're wanting them to do, right?
 If they're not getting to the details, then I can promise you somehow some way, some details are going to fall apart.
 All right, so what does it look like? That's a lot about in a team situation and a work environment. What about with couples? What about with families?
 What are some tips? You need to understand that the very same things I talked about, if it's your spouse, allow the energy, right?
 Allow them to have energy. Now, does it mean that they control everything? Does it mean that they get to be the center of attention on everything?
 No, that's where you get to have conversations with them. Hey, baby, I love your energy. I love how how many good ideas or things, you know,
 the things she talks about, what one of the things I noticed is, and this is how I experienced it, one thing with high eyes, especially highs.
 Do this with everybody, but especially with high eyes, use the phrase, this is how I experienced this, you know, high eye of all people, what we're seeing in attack immediately, even if it's not an actual attack, right?
 They will that criticism can feel like you know, you just gave them a big old punch right in the throat.
 So hopefully, if you can use the terminology well and just say, hey, here's what I'm experiencing. I experienced that, you know, you spent a lot of time talking through this, but I didn't really feel heard myself.
 I didn't really feel like I got to participate in sharing some information. So there's things that you can do as you notice the imageurity side of the high eye, where you can speak into it in a way that if you are leaning in their direction,
 and you know, maybe a little sandwich, good, negative, good, you know, use good terminology of hey, help me to understand this or hey, here's what I experienced, you know, if you do these things, then the high eye can have a easier time listening to what you say as opposed to feeling like you're telling them that they're a terrible person, right?
 So what's the goal here? So if you're out there going, well, I don't care, maybe they weren't terrible, maybe they weren't, maybe they weren't, right?
 But our goal isn't whether or not you're right about that, our goal is how do we get to successful communication?
 How do we get to leading people really well? I will tell you when it comes to family, you know, raising our youngest daughter, it is super important because she is a off the chart eye and a pretty high D.
 That we spend time getting down on her level and talking through hey babe, let's talk through this situation.
 You know, she could, you could see the eye role of oh great, I must have done something wrong. Hey, let's talk through this. So how can I understand? Do you know why doing this thing over here is not okay?
 Do you understand how I received that? Do you understand how I felt when you said such and said whatever it is?
 If I will help her to see I'm not going to pummel her, she's not going to experience, you know, getting in trouble, she's going to experience a conversation with a loving dad who saying, I want you to understand why this is bad.
 And then we'll talk about how to fix it. It makes it super easy for her at a very incredibly young age to go, okay daddy, let's talk.
 Okay, daddy, let's talk about that thing. Let's talk about that situation.
 And knowing that she is a high eye and the last thing that she wants is to disappoint me and the last thing that she wants is to feel like she's in trouble on something. It really helps her if I will lean in her direction and talk to her in a way that doesn't sound like she's a horrible person.
 Right, no, does that mean that that's every situation? No, if she does something really, really bad, then she's probably going to get a stern discussion on hey that choice is now leading to this consequence, right?
 But for the most part, if I can lean in her direction and talk to her about stuff, I mean for me, I say people are her energy if people come around, woo that child lights up. She's ready to go.
 People are her energy. So if I help her to see the people are her energy, then it can help her to regulate how she responds around people. It can help her not to occupy everybody and hear the thing. She's thinking, "Cute is all good out." She's so cute.
 Everybody wants to hang out with her, but after she's led you into doing 47 things in one day because she's so stinking cute, you're like, "Okay, that's enough. I'm good. I'm good." Because she's charming and incredibly charming, right? And she's a great girl.
 I love her to death. I mean, just my heart beat. But I still lead people, including my children, the way that I teach. I lean in their direction, help them to come to understand they're not a victim to the situation.
 Being attacked, do you understand what you did? Do you understand, do you agree that this is something that happened? Thinking through those family dynamics, how do you set the child up before success?
 What we normally see in so many families is just yelling at the kid for doing something, and the kid doesn't understand and just feels like, "Well, mom, you're having a bad day. That is having a bad day."
 Understanding and adapting our communication. Some of the biggest misunderstandings and clashes that high eyes have with other personalities, all revolve around the things I've just shared.
 They often feel like they're not heard. They often feel like they're being attacked in a situation. They often feel like they're being left out or ignored, right?
 Sometimes, sometimes, sometimes people don't respond to them because they don't even talk. If I don't recognize them, then I don't have to listen to them talk about something for so long.
 That does cause them to feel like they're being left out. That does cause them to feel like you don't care about them. They don't matter to you. Well, maybe they don't.
 Understanding, that's going to create conflict. That's going to lead to conflict. Instead of holding back attention, holding back love instead of ignoring them, instead of removing them from situations as some level of punishment,
 understanding that you need to adapt your styles and lean in the direction of helping them to understand what they're doing wrong. What they're struggling with or what you're experiencing from them.
 You will adjust this to them and even possibly do it in a positive and energetic way. You don't enthusiast agree. Hey, you've really done something stupid in your intro.
 I don't talk about that. What I am saying is that if you can a lot of times, if I'm approaching a high eye for doing something wrong, I'll do it in a different tone. Hey, listen, I need to talk to you about something.
 You're going to receive this little tough. I would not consider this to be a tough conversation, but I know that you're going to not like that we have to talk about this.
 I want to say that you're going to be a tough conversation, but I want to say that you're going to be a tough conversation, but I want to say that you're going to be a tough conversation, but I want to say that you're going to be a tough conversation, but I want to say that you're going to be a tough conversation, but I want to say that you're going to be a tough conversation, but I want to say that you're going to be a tough conversation, but I want to say that you're going to be a tough conversation, but I want to say that you're going to be a tough conversation, but I want to say that you're going to be a tough conversation, but I want to say that you're going to be a tough conversation, but I want to say that you're going to be a tough conversation, but I want to say that you're going to be a tough conversation, but I want to say that you're going to be a tough conversation, but I want to say that you're going to
 We share our information, we're honest with the situation. Let's see what this leader or this person has to say. If you will adapt your personality style to theirs, we talked about on the front side of adapting to leading them in a positive way or leading them in meetings and stuff.
 You're leading them in something negative, understand how stressful it can be for the high eye, try and make adjustments. Don't go in there with Mr. Judgmental eyes and your tone and standing over them and all that kind of stuff.
 That's going to get you somebody who's going to probably push back very hard or probably somebody who's going to possibly move into victim mentality. So instead adapt into the ways even if it's something negative that helps them to receive the negativity.
 When folks go through when high eyes actually do come through next level, they're blown away. They're blown away at the process because it's not something that they've experienced before. Sometimes high eyes get treated harshly because they are so out there. They do put themselves out there.
 They do focus on being sent out of attention. They do have the first answer in a brainstorming session and sometimes they get treated not so well.
 So it's great for them to experience a difficult situation, difficult, you know, something a process like next level life and find out that it's actually very positive for them.
 That it wasn't as bad as they thought it wasn't as painful as they thought. So other things you can do is emphasize their strengths. This is what any personality style really.
 But make sure that you're emphasizing their strengths to them. If you can and I have had very successful conversations and very mature conversations of talking to a high eye and saying,
 Hey, here's things I want to talk preparing them. You know letting them know what's coming letting them know you're not in trouble. You're not getting get attacked.
 You know, you're you're not going to get your head ripped off. Here's what I want to talk about. You know, then it allows me to speak to their strengths.
 Man, when you have great energy, it's just it's fun. It's fun and a meeting. It's fun and a project. You're very encouraging. You know, speak to all the positive things.
 My baby girl is just so stink and encouraging all the time. But sometimes you know, most of the time it's genuine. It's incredibly genuine and then sometimes it's trying to win daddy or
 Sometimes it's trying to get extra attention, right? So it's okay to recognize that that gift that talent is a positive, but it's also if you do it well.
 It's also possible for you to have a discussion and point out to them how that affects things in a negative way. Hey, when it looks like you're spending time trying to have all the answers or have the right answers or have the first answers.
 Then, you know, if those answers aren't great or they're not usable, then it looks like you're just speaking up just to speak up. Does that make sense when I'm talking about have you ever understood or recognize that part of yourself.
 So just as a small example, I'm not saying it a mean way, right? I'm not, you know, ripping somebody's head off.
 I'm instead pointing out, hey, here's something that is a positive about you, but it also can be something that's a negative.
 So make sure that as you are helping the high eye,
 BAT member, we want the enthusiasm of the high eye. We want the strengths, all the strengths that I hit on the front side of this, we want those things experienced in a team dynamic.
 But we may have to just like every other personality style, work through some of the negative aspects to get those, you know, get the the strengths polished up and work on the negatives.
 So that we can get that same enthusiasm in the areas that we want them, but also in a way where they're considering other people.
 So very important for you to do.
 All right, what about self reflection and personal growth? Well, if you are a high eye, then I want you to think about your high eye personality style.
 I want you to think about the things we've talked about right now.
 I want you to think about how, you know, if what you're experiencing and listening to this is oh my gosh, Chris is so insensitive and I can't believe well, then there's already the problem right there, right?
 If you're able to listen to this, I'm a 67 eye and I agree with everything I'm saying.
 It's not difficult for me to agree with all of this.
 It's not hard at all. Why? Because I'm also a very high-ess, so I'm very introspective.
 I have no problem looking at myself going, oh wow, did I just, you know, did I just speak up before I really had a good answer? Did I was I just being center retention for center retention sake? Oh my gosh, okay.
 Not good off. Let's fix this, right?
 So if you're going to grow the first thing you have to do is be very aware.
 If you haven't done your personality profiles, oh for the love, get it, get it done.
 I'll tell you the high-eye will disagree with a decent amount.
 Like probably about 10% or more of their personality profile.
 And then I'll always say did you show it to your spouse? And I'll be like, yes, I sure did.
 And I'll be like, what did your spouse say? And they're like, well, they agreed with it all.
 Yes, of course they did because it's true. And they experienced that with you on a daily basis.
 So yes, it's okay to understand that that's true. It's okay to recognize those things about yourself.
 It's important to do so. You know, we talk about it all the time.
 As the importance of personality styles, importance of communication.
 If your team does not know how to communicate well together, then it's going to be the thing that holds all this back.
 If your team cannot lean in each other's directions and understand and clearly communicate and set each other up for success,
 then it's going to be the thing that holds us back.
 So make sure you go to crisicurve.com/store and get the disc products.
 Make sure you get at least do the disc. I highly suggest the disc plus that has the values.
 Make sure that you watch the video with your team. That is powerful. It's great. It's very funny.
 And it allows them to have great conversations afterwards and start leaning in each other's directions.
 So if you can as a high eye reflect on this, it's important for you.
 So think about this. What is the struggle high eye that we lose worth when we feel rejected that we lose worth when we feel attacked that we lose worth when we feel ignored.
 Okay. Well, what if we can come to understand why those things happen?
 Why they exist? It doesn't mean that any of those are good.
 But I think what you'll discover is the bulk of the time it's not really in existence.
 You're not being attacked. You're not being rejected. You're not being ignored. The bulk of the time.
 I'm not saying it doesn't happen. There's some very immature other personality styles that do that.
 But the bulk of the time, it's the pain that we've experienced from those situations that cause us to believe it's going to happen or it's happening right now.
 So if you are going to grow, that's the first thing you have to have self-awareness. You have to have time reflecting on situations where you're right.
 It did happen, but also recognizing all the times that it actually didn't, but you believed that it did.
 Another thing you need to do is ask yourself, how can you communicate better for better results when it comes to work?
 When it comes to family, when it comes to community, whatever it is, what are some things that you can choose to adjust to make sure that you're setting other people up for success in communication?
 Also, one of the biggest things you need to recognize is, one is a time that we need to shift from social mode to task mode.
 Listen, there's times where you have to go from people to task, even though the people are in the tasks, it doesn't mean that we get to socialize every aspect of this thing, right? Let's get to work, let's get things done.
 Another important thing, please recognize you don't do well with details.
 Do what it takes to solve that. Do what it takes to make sure that you're covering your butt with the details. Make sure that you don't just tell people you got it.
 You know, one of the biggest mistakes I can make as somebody who has led many eyes is that they want to please me and so they want to take as many things off of my plate as possible.
 And if I see now I haven't done this in decades because I learned it early on, but if I see that you're taking things off of my plate, man, I want to give you more. You keep asking for more.
 I'm going to keep giving you more. But when you've overwhelmed yourself and things start to fail, guess who you're going to blame me.
 Well, you gave me all of these things. You'll throw me under the bus because you took on more than you can handle and as a leader, I should have made sure that that's you didn't take on more than you can handle.
 It's important for you as a high-eyed, a recognized, your worth isn't in pleasing other people. I know you believe it is, but it's just not.
 A leader is going to be way way more pleased with you if you accomplish a project with excellence than if you do three projects in the same amount of time and there's no excellence. Trust me on this. This is super important.
 So, top of all of these things, what are suitable paths and job roles for high eyes? Well, if it has people involved, it's probably a great place for them to be.
 If it has high levels of detail, I'm going to say it's probably not the best. I'm never going to put a high eye over my accounting. It's just not not important.
 It's just not the best decision for me to make because I need details and I need solid numbers.
 It doesn't mean that they can't do it. It doesn't mean that they can't have fun at it, but I guarantee you. At the end of the day, a high eye doesn't want to be doing numbers.
 Same way every day, all day, five days a week, five years into it, they just don't want to do it. So take a look at places where they can utilize that energy that enthusiasm.
 With all of this, let me speak to how many leaders are frustrated because they don't have the time and tools like this to lead well.
 Your days get filled up with fires with people drama with meetings that are simply a waste of time and you never seem to get what's important and what actually moves the business forward.
 Reading books and listening to podcasts aren't helping and not much about your work life is changing for the better. The thing is,
 most leaders do not know how to implement what they've learned, assuming it was good information to start with. Now obviously this podcast is.
 Right? This is why we created the next level leadership live event.
 So if you feel frustrated or stuck about work these days, go to Chrissacrita.com/events. That's Chrissacrita.com/events.
 Registration opens December 1st with $500 off every ticket you buy, but that's for a short time.
 Here's the great thing. You're going to learn the lessons that we practice daily in our business that are only taught at this event or inside one of our coaching programs.
 On top of that, you're going to have hours of workshop time to work these things out with the access to our coaches right then and there.
 So go to Chrissacrita.com/events before this limited time offer slips away.
 Well folks, I want you to remember that understanding and embracing each personality can lead to more harmonious relationships and definitely more productive teams.
 You're empowering your team to handle conflicts more effectively and obviously nurture collaboration incredibly well in the environment and the work environment.
 So this is the important key. Understand, be aware and start implementing these aspects.
 Now we would love to hear from you. We'd love to hear your stories and insights. So please feel free to share them with us at podcast.christlicardo.com.
 Well, that's all the time we have for today. I hope this information has helped you out. I love you, high eyes.
 I know there's a lot of negative in here, but don't forget all the positive.
 All right, so just remember that as always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]