 On today's episodes, tough times might not be going away any time soon, but that doesn't
 mean that life has to be tough for you.
 We'll be talking about that coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous new year so far.
 It's only been a few days, but hopefully so far you've not been hit with any major
 crisis, yet, crisis, crises, how are you said?
 Hopefully they've not hit you yet.
 But it's also definitely likely as we begin a brand new year.
 It's not like that everything got wiped away, right?
 It's highly likely that there's going to be a chance that we're going to run into some
 sort of crisis this year.
 Man, I hope not.
 But if we're thinking about it practically, we're guaranteed to encounter some kind of
 trouble at some time, right?
 If you look at John 1633, it says, I have told you these things so that in me, you may
 have peace in this world, you will have trouble, but take heart.
 I have overcome the world, praise God, hallelujah.
 Thank you, Lord, for that, right?
 We do know Lord, the Lord already promises us.
 We're going to have some tough times in this life.
 The key is this life isn't the end of it for those of us that are believers, those of us that
 are followers, this life isn't the end of it, right?
 We've got the next one, which is a turnity and praise God for that.
 And he's already overcome this world so that we can live in that world with him, that life
 with him and not have to deal with the junk we've got to deal with here.
 But just because your Christian doesn't mean that you won't have problems, you're going to know
 where, know where does Jesus say, hey, listen, if you are one of my followers, you're
 void of problems.
 No, you're saying in this world, you're going to have it.
 We just read that.
 We know that that's going to happen.
 We know that it's a problem.
 In Acts 14, 22, we read that the apostles encouraged believers to continue in the faith, reminding
 them that we must endure many hardships to enter the kingdom of God.
 Now one of the things we talk about a lot in next level of life is how often we look at the
 negative things, the hardships and we think to ourselves that that's actually bad.
 Why?
 Because in the moment, it's actually bad.
 We experience it that way.
 But guess what?
 Here's something super important to understand.
 God uses hardships to grow us.
 God uses difficult times to grow us and make us more into who he wants us to be.
 So today I want to talk about that part.
 The part about enduring this present reality, not as a victim of life circumstances, but as
 a victor.
 So if you would like to learn more about that, check out episodes 495 through 498.
 There's a whole lot of information on not being a victim.
 But instead today we're going to talk about being a victor.
 I want to show you how to get the upper hand on the crisis of life, even undermining them so
 that they're not able to steal your peace, steal your joy or to steal your sanity.
 So when we come back, what you can do now to get a grip on the things that make you feel
 out of control.
 It's so powerful.
 I don't rejuvenate and almost renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So I was very comfortable there.
 That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it.
 It's going to be hard for us to be even better on the other side.
 For me it was just very refreshing.
 I want to say life giving to me and really was.
 I know I would go to the next level of life again and probably again and probably again because
 it's so powerful.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of self-awareness
 and freedom that they have or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like
 for you, then head on over to Chrissacrido.com/nextlevellife.
 Before we get back to undermining the crisis of life, let's talk about how to overcome the things
 that are undermining your leadership.
 The fact is that the more effect of you become as a leader, the more effect of your team becomes,
 which means the more your business will grow with less stress.
 If you're ready to take a huge leap forward in your leadership capability, then you absolutely
 need to check out our next level of leadership live event, which is coming up in April.
 The keynote lessons are geared to equip you to build high-performing teams, cultivate excellence
 in every corner of your business and grow your revenues.
 The lessons we are teaching during this event are truly transformative.
 You're not going to want to miss them.
 So sign up today at Chrissacrido.com/events and get ready for growth.
 Okay, let's get back to what's keeping you from the life you really want.
 Now these days, we hear a lot about things like panic, stress, triggers, PTSD and trauma.
 Now, I'm probably going to offend a lot of people right now.
 And if I do, sorry.
 I really want you to consider what you're describing as one of these things.
 Now, panic, stress, triggers, what we see is we see a ton of people using certain things
 to create trauma in their life.
 So if you're somebody who is genuinely experiencing something traumatic, it's very subjective
 to what the definition of traumatic is.
 But if we take the normative definition of traumatic, it's not the things that are being said
 today.
 It absolutely drives me nuts to hear somebody say that they almost dropped their cup of coffee and
 it was very traumatic for them.
 You know, it almost spilled on their clothes and it was traumatic that they did drop a cup
 of coffee and their car once before and they've got PTSD since.
 It is ridiculous to use phrases like this for situations like that.
 If you're offended by this, come see us.
 Come talk to us.
 Come talk to somebody because we need to help you to get greater reality.
 Why?
 Because truthfully, almost dropping your cup of coffee doesn't create trauma by the definition
 of trauma.
 Right?
 So we are seeing people use words like this on a consistent basis to describe stuff to make
 it more dramatic in their life.
 It is ridiculous, right?
 Even in mild stress or inconvenience, we see people having strong reactions.
 We see people being incredibly frustrated.
 So you have to ask yourself, is it you?
 Even if it's a decent amount of stress, do you tend to have a very strong reaction to it?
 When you're frustrated, do you feel like giving up?
 When there's a problem, do you want to throw in the towel?
 When someone says there's something that robs you the wrong way, do you want to get even or
 even retaliate?
 These are things that we've got to start asking ourselves.
 Now, again, if your response is, you know, you had something that is super minor and
 you're now calling it PTSD, we probably need to reset expectations.
 We've probably need to reset reality, right?
 So think about this.
 If you have post traumatic stress disorder from almost dropping a cup of coffee, we probably need
 to reset reality.
 We need to take a hard look at it at least, right?
 We can't reset it, but we can probably dig in and find out.
 Now, what does that mean for all of those folks who have been through actual traumatic stuff?
 I have had a few times in my life when I've been through something that I would define
 and I think most of the planet would define as traumatic.
 And it's been very difficult, right?
 But I reserve those situations that I hope that I don't have.
 I'm not looking to be in a traumatic situation.
 And yet, what do we find?
 And again, if you go back to any of those episodes, one of the things we talk about is how fashionable,
 how invog it is to have trauma nowadays, to be a victim in this world.
 So many people are looking for that.
 If you're listening to this show and that's what you're experiencing or feeling, please get
 with somebody, please get with us.
 Please get with somebody who can help you through that.
 If that's not it, then we still want to evaluate ourselves.
 Maybe you are going through considerably tougher stuff and we want to evaluate what's right,
 what are appropriate reactions, right?
 Just because we are having these responses of strong reactions or wanting to give up or wanting
 to get even, they're not necessarily right or appropriate reactions.
 They're basically overreactions.
 Now we talk a lot about how our lives and even our hearts are like vineyards.
 They're meant to be blooming, to be fruitful, to be healthy.
 We also see in the song of Solomon, it says, "Catch the foxes for us, the little foxes
 that ruin vineyards, our vineyards are in bloom."
 According to Solomon, there are these little foxes that undermine the health and vitality
 that we seek.
 I think you're aware of that.
 I think you know that, right?
 There's little things out there.
 So what are the little foxes that are spoiling your vineyard and holding you back from being
 fruitful?
 Are you missing fruit like love?
 Are you missing fruit like joy?
 What about peace?
 These are things that are worth protecting.
 I can't tell you how important it is to make sure that we do protect our heart and the important
 things that we experience from the little foxes.
 So that's what we're kind of talking about today.
 The problem is that it's super easy to get caught up in the current culture flow, right?
 Let's say panicy time, right?
 Chances are that even if you haven't, you probably know somebody who has had a panic attack.
 I could tell you, I used to think they were fake.
 Until I had my first one, I probably had two or three in my life.
 And I could tell you, I used to think they were fake.
 I thought, when I was younger, I was like, there's no possible way this is actually happening.
 Until one day I found myself gripping my chest, knowing it wasn't a heart attack and just
 realizing as I was going through a very traumatic, legitimate traumatic time in my life,
 I realized, oh my gosh, these things do exist.
 Here's the deal.
 Such things have the power to incapacitate some people, leaving them hopeless.
 If we look at Luke 2126, Jesus gives us insight into what it looks like to live in the end
 times.
 He says, "Men's hearts will be full of anxiety and fear as the powers of heaven are shaken."
 Now, I don't know where you are.
 In your walk, I don't know if you are a follower of Jesus or Yeshua, as we would say,
 his Hebrew name would be.
 But I can tell you, I do believe as a close follower, somebody who spends a lot of time researching
 studying and trying to understand my God as much as I possibly can.
 When he talks about how my disciples will recognize the signs of the times, folks, if you
 haven't looked around lately, there's a whole lot of signs of the times going on.
 So I do believe, and if we take a look at it prophetically, then the end times began when Israel
 became a nation in one day, which was in 1948, right?
 When overnight the United Nations became a major Israel nation in one day.
 So that started the end times.
 What do we see?
 We see a whole lot of stuff that makes it look pretty crappy.
 Aligns with what he says is going to happen.
 So it's not hard to understand that there's going to be, you know, the men's hearts will
 be full of anxiety and fear, obviously it's not just men.
 This is men, women, people is what he's speaking to.
 Now it is, it seems like any little thing can send people into panic.
 People feel traumatized or triggered by things that 20 years ago would have been considered
 insignificant or harmless.
 So I want to kind of separate out what I talked about in the beginning.
 I don't believe it's traumatic to drop coffee or almost drop coffee, right?
 But do I believe that people receive it as incredibly stressful?
 Yes, I do.
 Do I believe that people panic in situations like that?
 Yes, I do.
 Right?
 And I feel like we see this happening a lot more with a lot more people.
 It's not just a couple of people.
 We see it a lot.
 Many people are seeking a safe place if you will to hide away in.
 So let's take a look at what some old testament was them says.
 If we take a hard look at Psalms 46 and this may be something you want to go over multiple
 times.
 God is our refuge in our strength.
 He is always ready to help in our times of trouble.
 So we will not fear when earthquakes come and the mountains crumble into the sea.
 Let the oceans roar in foam.
 If the mountains crumble as water surge, a river brings joy to the city of our God, the sacred
 home of the most high.
 God dwells in that city.
 It cannot be destroyed from the very break of day.
 God will protect it.
 The nations are in chaos and their kingdoms crumble.
 God's voice thunders and the earth melts.
 Notice the contrast between God's city and the nations, right?
 It's crazy what's going on in the nations.
 But look how protected you are in God's city.
 The Lord of Heaven's armies is here among us.
 The God of Israel is our fortress.
 Folks, if he is not your fortress, then why not?
 What is he going to be?
 Have you made him the God of Israel your fortress today this week?
 The share if you have not.
 Again, this year is only 30 days into it.
 But if you have not, why not?
 Maybe you want to read through Psalm 46 a few more times.
 Write down in a journal what comes to your mind as you're reading and thinking through
 those verses, right?
 It's important for us to recognize that the genies not going back in the bottle.
 No, I don't believe in genies.
 Sorry, Christy, and I, but I don't believe in genies.
 But when you take a look at what's going on in this world, it's not going backwards.
 We're not going back to any level of normality that we thought we can't.
 It's gone too far forward.
 Much crap is happening too much evil is happening too much jacked up stuff bad politicians.
 Too much stuff has happened too many people are believing evil is okay.
 Too many people are believing that the way that people are stealing from people, hurting people,
 taking advantage of people that it's okay, you know, that this is happening all over the
 place now.
 That's not going to change.
 So what do we do about it?
 Let's take a look at instability, right?
 So why all the panic and fuss over even the slightest disturbances today?
 People are easily disturbed.
 They're easily disappointed.
 They're easy, crazy, easily offended.
 They're easily frustrated.
 They're easily flustered.
 If we take a look at it at what sends people into the panic mode, many times it's whenever
 there is some sense of instability.
 Someone else reacts poorly to them.
 They're, they don't go the way that they want it.
 Get bad news that sends them into a tailspin.
 Instability in circumstances is defined as the quality or state of being unstable, exhibiting
 a lack of stability or firmness.
 So does your life ever feel that way?
 Do you ever feel like things seem to always be shifting around you?
 Do you feel like circumstances are out of your control?
 Do you feel like life lacks a certain stability, a certain predictability, a certain firmness?
 Well, if so, then the result in stability in a person is defined as a tendency towards unpredictable
 behavior or erratic changes of mood.
 So here's what we have to understand.
 If you're feeling this, if you've ever felt anything like that before, you're up one day,
 you're down the next, you lack a certain steadiness, balance clarity because life is out
 of control or you feel a lot of control.
 If you've experienced that before and again, we've moved past the concept of it being something
 that's really not an issue.
 We're not something super silly.
 You're almost dropped a cup of coffee.
 I keep using that as an example because I think everybody could see that that doesn't belong
 in the trauma category.
 But you do have things going on.
 You do have stuff happening and you find that you're responding harsher, that you find
 that you're responding more stressed out, more panicky.
 If you're experiencing those things, well, guess what?
 There's no shortage of stress, trouble, trials, crisis all around us.
 But the presence of those things doesn't necessarily mean that we have to be panicked
 driven in our responses.
 This is the point that I'm driving to today folks.
 If we can remove the silly stuff and we can recognize the legit stuff, right?
 They're really bad, traumatic stuff.
 What is this stuff in the middle that we are struggling with?
 It's real.
 There's a lot of stresses.
 There's a lot of things going on.
 But have we noticed that our responses tend to be overreactions and yet we still don't know
 why.
 And we still don't know what to do about it.
 So here's my question to you.
 What is your response to instability?
 Many react by trying to control the situation.
 A lot of people try to control people who are involved.
 Either way, it's not a good plan.
 Keeping everything under control is ultimately an impossible and very futile goal.
 Why?
 Because controlling people, circumstances, outcomes, it's all incredibly exhausting.
 It's all very manipulative and it's all very focused on me.
 It's all in vain.
 Right?
 If I'm trying to control those things, Victor Franco had a great saying which is forces beyond
 your control can take away everything you possess except for one thing.
 You're freedom to choose how you respond to the situation.
 So the question is, are you responding well?
 Are you responding in a healthy way?
 What do you think about how you're responding?
 Are you keeping yourself in your responses under control?
 Because that's actual real freedom and it's waiting for you.
 That's not actual real freedom and it's waiting for you.
 That sounded so emotional right there.
 It's waiting for you people.
 But it is true.
 It is waiting for you.
 You can choose better responses.
 You can choose not to respond the way the world is.
 You can choose to really evaluate what the current situation is and ask yourself is my response
 okay.
 If it is not then what do we need to do about that?
 We're going to talk about that when we come back.
 If instability is undermining your quality of life then it's time to get the upper hand
 on your stability.
 Folks if you've been listening to me for any length of time then you know the number one issue
 when it comes to business when it comes to family when it comes to friendships is having
 a lack of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life it all starts with
 having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand
 the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with whether it be
 at work or at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to crissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and
 personality profiles for your team two day.
 Get it for your family members.
 Today as you go through that profile you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to crissacrittle.com/store2day.
 Alright we're back.
 Our little crisis is undermining your sanity.
 Are they undermining your stability?
 Are they undermining your serenity?
 How can we turn the tables here?
 How can we control ourselves even if we don't have a grip on the situation?
 Even if we can't control other people because guess what folks you can't control is an illusion
 there.
 The truth is, and I've said this before, ancient wisdom teaches us that we tend to suffer more
 and how we perceive the situation.
 How we think about things.
 Then the reality itself.
 You can actually choose not to be hurt by something in your mind.
 The person teaching you this today has to deal with this stuff.
 I struggle with this stuff.
 I have to use the tools we teach to get through some of these things.
 You can actually choose not to be offended by someone's words or actions, which today is
 increasingly becoming more difficult.
 Why?
 Because people would become an incredibly offensive.
 Or we perceive people as being incredibly offensive.
 Sometimes they're just not.
 These are just looking different.
 We have to choose how we're going to react.
 Are we going to be offended by something that somebody says?
 Or are we going to be able to look at that person and really evaluate?
 Is that person?
 Let's say somebody is trying to offend us.
 Is that person really struggling themselves?
 If they are struggling and they're saying something offensive to us, it's because they're
 trying to get a rise.
 They're trying to get a response.
 If you are offended, guess what?
 They've succeeded.
 You helped them to accomplish their goal.
 What would it be like if we didn't get offended?
 If we recognized if somebody was acting in an unhealthy way, we recognized that they were
 being unhealthy and we decided not to get offended.
 You can actually choose to respond with weakness, with kindness, even courage.
 So what do we do?
 We tend to blow things at a proportion because we feel out of control.
 Again, we can't control other people.
 We can't control our circumstances in life, not all of them.
 We can control a lot, but we can't control all of them.
 But we can choose to control ourselves.
 And our response is, "Proverbs 2528 says, "A man without self control is like a city broken
 into and left without walls."
 The point is, is that without the city walls, it's now easily controlled by others.
 If I don't have self control, that I'm definitely easily controlled by other people, I have no protection.
 If we are going to undermine the crisis of life, then it begins with disciplining ourselves,
 yourself, your thoughts, your mind.
 Remember those little boxes that I mentioned about from Solomon, little things that break in
 and steal your joy.
 What are you going to do about them?
 How are you going to mend fences?
 How are you going to repair the wall?
 How are you going to fortify your hearts?
 Well, Jesus spells it out for us in Matthew 6.
 So if we look at Matthew 6, verse 25 through verse 34, this is why I tell you not to worry
 about everyday life.
 Whether you have enough food or drink or enough clothes to wear, isn't life more than food
 and your body more than clothing?
 Look at the birds.
 They don't plant or harvest or store food and barns for your Heavenly Father.
 He feeds them.
 Aren't you far more valuable, listen to this people?
 Aren't you far more valuable to him than the birds?
 Now think about this.
 Jesus speaking, so it is God.
 God is saying, you're more valuable to me.
 Right?
 Aren't you more valuable to me than the birds?
 And I take care of all the birds.
 Can all your worries at a single moment to your life?
 And why worry about your clothing?
 Look at the little things of the field and how they grow.
 They don't work or make their clothing yet Solomon and all his glory was not dressed as beautifully
 as they are.
 And if God cares so wonderfully about the wild flowers that are here today and thrown into
 the fire tomorrow, he will certainly care about you.
 Why do you have so little faith?
 So don't worry about these things, saying what will we eat?
 What will we drink?
 What will we wear?
 These things dominate the thoughts of unbelievers.
 You're having a father already knows all your needs.
 See the kingdom of God above all else and live right to sleep.
 Let me say that again, live right to sleep.
 If you don't understand what that means, dig in and discover exactly what that means.
 And he will give you everything you need.
 So don't worry about tomorrow.
 For tomorrow we'll bring it's own worries.
 Today's troubles are enough for today.
 Listen, there's plenty of things to worry about each day.
 Don't overburden yourself with tomorrow.
 Don't overburden yourself with useless imaginations.
 Don't useless fears.
 Don't overburden yourself period.
 Another way of looking at all this is learning to take it one day at a time.
 Don't buy off more than you can true.
 Don't fret over what's not in your control.
 For the believer, we can actually go beyond what natural wisdom tells us.
 Their supernatural wisdom to tap into.
 So what's our job or responsibility here to according to Jesus to learn to go to the Father so
 that we can humble ourselves.
 To learn to bring ourselves under his control, not our own, not man's, but his to learn
 to put everything into his hands.
 Allow him to work in us, his loving peace and strength.
 Now how do we do that?
 Jesus taught us in four steps how to go to the Father in Matthew 6.
 He said, pray like this, our Father who is in heaven, holy is your name, your kingdom
 come, your kingdom, your kingdom, not ours, not this one, your kingdom come.
 Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
 Give us today our daily bread and forgive us our sins as we have forgiven those who have
 sinned against us.
 Don't ask God to forgive you for your sins if you can't forgive the rest of us kids.
 Focus on that.
 Make sure that you're forgiving people for what they've done to you and lead us not into temptation,
 but rescue us for me, folks.
 These are important, important phrases.
 One recognized that our Father is holy that he is set apart from all evil, all the rest
 of us, that he has a kingdom that got planted on this earth when you shoot a
 earth.
 Looked across, died and was resurrected.
 That planted the kingdom of God on this planet and it has been growing aggressively ever since.
 We want more of his kingdom to come.
 We want it to be here as it is in heaven.
 We want him to give us our daily bread.
 What is Yeshua say, "Man shall not live by bread alone but every word that proceeds from
 the mouth of God."
 He was the walking talking Torah.
 He is the word.
 In the beginning was the word, the word was with God, the word was God, jump forward a few
 verses the word became flesh and dwelt among us.
 It's important to know we need that daily, right?
 We need to be forgiven for our sins.
 Think about it.
 How much more do we need to focus on forgiving other people who have heard us?
 Who've sinned against us?
 If you do not know the story of the man who is brought into the king and has this heavy, heavy
 duty debt and the king forgive them all.
 He's crying out, "I've got kids, I've got family, I can't do this."
 He gets forgiven all of his tons of debt that he has and he walks outside and he sees a guy
 who owns him a couple of bucks and he grabs him by his tunic and has him thrown in jail.
 Later on, the king hears about this and rage is like, "You've got to be kidding me.
 I just forgive you all of this and you're doing that to that guy.
 Forget it.
 All of this is back on you."
 Right?
 It throws him in jail as well.
 We can't be the one that we're asking God to forgive us so, so much.
 So many things that we've done wrong and then turning to other people and holding grudges against
 them and not forgiving them for the stupid that they've done.
 We've done tons of stupid.
 We've all done all of us.
 Every one of us.
 We need to recognize that we have a loving father who forgives us.
 If we seek it, if we ask for it, he forgives us.
 Also don't seek temptation.
 Get us far away from it as you possibly can.
 And the last thing you want, you know, I hear these people talking about men.
 Oh, you know, I'm gonna take on the devil today.
 He's not getting me.
 Listen, he's not stupid.
 He's not thousands of years to study us.
 Don't get cocky.
 Ask God to keep you safe and remove you from the temptations.
 That's not what you want.
 You don't want to be in the evil, right?
 Focus on God.
 And I will tell you this.
 If we go back to the term righteous, you will discover, I'm just going to suggest this for
 all.
 I'm just going to leave this here.
 When you are ready, when you are ready, I want you to sit down and read the book,
 pagan Christianity.
 Don't do it on audible.
 Sit down and read this thing.
 Start forward and discover some things that are affecting you and holding you back because of
 paganism that's entered our belief system.
 It's important.
 And the crazy thing is, when you see it, you can't unsee it.
 I can tell you this.
 A lot of people don't want to see it.
 A lot of people want to stay exactly the way they are and not focused on what God wants.
 They want to say, "Focus on what they want."
 It makes it a very difficult book for people to read.
 Now I know this.
 I'm aware of this.
 It's something that I've known about for many, many years.
 When you're ready to find out what it means to follow God right justly and have his protection,
 start there.
 That's a good dig in place.
 There's many, many, many books out there like this, but that's a really good research
 one from George Barnett, version from the research side.
 I guess is what I should say.
 So where do we go from here?
 Well, we got to focus on discipline, discipline equals freedom.
 So what's the central point?
 Learning to deal with small problems, the little fox is the constant worrying is great training
 for learning to deal with bigger actual crisis that will come.
 Remember the story of David before he became King of Israel before he was even chosen as Israel's
 next king, before he was ever anointed by the prophet and before he faced the giant
 Galaya, David had already been tested, proven and trained as a young shepherd in the field.
 First Samuel 17, David talks to Saul who was the president king at the time about how he learned
 to be a warrior in the little battles when he was a little boy.
 Your servant was tending his father's sheep.
 When a lion or bear came and took a sheep from the flock, I went out after it and attacked
 it.
 And rescued the sheep from its mouth.
 And it rose up against me, I grabbed it by its mane and struck it and killed it.
 Your servant has killed both the lion and the bear.
 And this unsurcom sized filestine will be like one of them since he has defiled the armies
 of the living god.
 David spent years preparing for the greatest crisis to come against his country Israel and
 that was Galaya.
 He had already spent years tackling lions and bears, warning our frobbers and thieves, protecting
 his father's flock of sheep from the menaces of life.
 Notice what his approach was to the little foxes, which were actually lions and bears.
 I went out after it and attacked it.
 So here's what I want to ask you.
 What are you facing right now that you need to address in your life?
 What's the fear keeping you from living fully?
 What's the worrying anxiety that has you fretting?
 What's the dread or trepidation that has you exhausted?
 Tackling the small predators prepared David to be the greatest king that Israel ever saw?
 David was the first tested with the small things before he faced Clive.
 And it was made ruler of the flock of Israel undermining the crisis in your life begins with
 facing every day problems with level headed crit.
 Appropriate reactions and proving your problem solving skills, remaining calm, leaning into the
 fathers love and growing in him.
 It is a process, folks.
 And then you got to tackle the negative self-talk.
 You got to tackle the line.
 You got to battle the lies with the truths.
 You've got to discover the things that you're telling yourself that are bringing you down,
 that are hurting you, that are affecting you.
 You got to take those thoughts captive.
 If you do not spend time pounding those lies with truths or the negative self-talk with
 positive self-talk, then you can't be surprised that it's super easy to feel out of control.
 Responding to the little crisis is a strength courage and resilience will actually prepare
 you for big crises.
 And to little traumas by controlling your thoughts will prepare you for big traumas if they happen
 to come along.
 If you recognize God uses difficult situations to turn you into a better version of you, then
 as you go through stuff, you won't be so ready to get out of them.
 You'll want to learn through them.
 I used to pray all the time for difficult situations.
 God, get me out of this.
 And I changed that to God.
 Teach me what you want me to know.
 Just do it as fast as you can.
 Because I'd really like to get out of this, but I don't want to get out of this and not have
 learned.
 So here's some clear perspective that you'll need in order to make this all practical.
 The three rules for undermining the crisis is in training yourself to endure.
 Number one, feelings are not facts.
 I say that again because a lot of people do not understand this.
 And there's horrid teaching going on out there right now that says you need to feel every feeling
 you've got.
 Listen, just because you have a feeling, it doesn't mean that it's not legit.
 It doesn't mean that it doesn't exist.
 It just means that if it's not healthy, you don't have to keep feeling it.
 But there is literal teaching that says that you need to feel every feeling and walk
 through every feeling and it's destroying people.
 Folks, feelings are not facts.
 And facts, believe it or not, don't care about your feelings.
 Number two, feelings follow thoughts.
 Feelings follow thoughts.
 You do not have a feeling and then have thoughts that are tied to it.
 You'll have thoughts after it.
 But you don't all of a sudden get a feeling of something that doesn't actually have a thought
 proceeding it.
 Number three, thoughts are in your control.
 They're in your control.
 If you're feeling out of control, it's because your thoughts are out of control.
 You're undisciplined.
 You're unfocused.
 You need to put your thoughts in order.
 You have to recognize that if you are not controlling your thoughts and I'm not saying that
 you don't have thoughts that crop up immediately that are bad, I'm talking about what
 do you do with them after they do?
 Do you immediately jump on it, recognize what's negative, what's positive, and then react accordingly,
 or do you allow them to affect your negatively?
 For some folks, those negative thoughts can control them for days, weeks, months.
 So it's going to take you some time and it's definitely going to take you one of the most
 important things which is practice.
 I want you to practice reading, studying, and memorizing scripture.
 I want you taking time to pray to the Father and put things in his hands.
 And I know it may sound funky to a bunch of you, but meditate on good things, things that bring
 the life, things that are rejecting the things that pull you down, focus on those things.
 Philippians 4/8 says, dear brothers and sisters, one final thing.
 Make sure thoughts on the things that are true, honorable, right, pure, lovely, and admirable.
 Think about things that are excellent in worthy of praise.
 Have you ever done that before?
 Have you spent time thinking on those things before?
 Have you ever asked yourself if what you're thinking on is in line with what Paul is telling
 the church to do at Philippi?
 True, honorable, right, pure, lovely, admirable, excellent worthy of praise.
 Probably 90% or more of what goes through our minds would be tossed out if we had a filter
 for these things.
 Can you imagine what that would feel like if you focused only on those things all day long?
 How different life would be?
 Closions 3/2 says, "Sit your mind on the things above, not on the things on earth."
 So where is your mind getting caught up on these earthly things?
 What's making you feel angry, envious, anxious, resentful, full of fear?
 You can actually control these things if you're willing to bring your thoughts under control.
 So take control of your mind, your thoughts and your responses.
 Measure what's going on around you with your reactions and ask are they appropriate for
 the situation?
 Does this response equate to what the situation is?
 If not, what do I do about that?
 I want to leave you with this last thought and maybe this should go in your journal or maybe
 you'll want to print this out and put it on your bathroom mirror but you'll want to keep this
 in your mind.
 What are the most frequently repeated commands in all scripture is fear not?
 Why?
 Because God says, "I am with you."
 And I say, "I 41, 10."
 God says, "Fear not, friom with you.
 Don't be dismayed.
 Friom your God.
 I will strengthen you.
 I will help you.
 I will uphold you with my righteous right hand."
 Folks, I completely understand.
 I get it.
 There's lots of stressful things going on in the world today.
 There's lots of junk.
 There's a lot of things that are happening in our personal lives.
 There's a lot of things that can cause us to feel out of control.
 I'm telling you, I am one of those people.
 I don't know a single person who doesn't feel out of control from time to time.
 The question is, what do we do with our responses?
 How do we handle it?
 What do we focus on?
 What do we think about?
 What do we process on?
 We can see there's a whole lot of scripture in here today.
 The more time we will spend focusing on God and making him the number one thing in our lives,
 nobody else has your turn to be in his hands, but him.
 The more we will make him number one in our lives, the more he will help us and protect us
 through these situations.
 He will help us not to fear and not to stress.
 So make sure that you're making him number one.
 Make sure that you're taking your thoughts captive that you are doing everything you
 can to not respond badly on healthy and correctly to the things that are going on in your life.
 Well, folks, hopefully this has helped you today.
 That's all the time we've got.
 I hope this is something that you can implement right away.
 I know you can.
 It's just a choice.
 You got to do it right.
 There's other people in your life that you know also need to hear this as well.
 So share this with them.
 Help them to get to this understanding as well.
 As always, you want you to take this information, change your leadership, change your business,
 change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 (upbeat music)
 (upbeat music)