 On today's episode, leadership is not for WIMS.
 It's tough. It's messy and it will push you to be a better person.
 Why? Because you're dealing with people.
 And sometimes they don't want to be led.
 Or at least they don't want to make it easy.
 So what can you do about it? Well, that's what we're going to be talking about.
 And that is coming up next.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life.
 And discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show, folks. I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Recently, on one of our mastermind Q&A calls with some of our clients, one of our leaders
 had been struggling with how to manage a team member that was a very strong personality
 style. Now, you could say any combination is a strong personality style.
 But specifically this personality style that this leader was dealing with was a high D and C.
 If you have not done your disc profile, go get it done, Chris LaCardo.com, make sure you get it done and get to some great
 understanding. This is powerful for communication. So they were dealing with a very high D and high C
 C still are dealing with a very high D and high C personality style.
 But this team member was known to have outbursts was known to lose this temper quickly to undermine the
 stability of the team in the office and everybody knows it. Still a great person.
 Still somebody people likes, but has some serious mood ships.
 And as I'm going through this, there's probably a lot of you out there that are saying,
 "He's gotta be talking about so and so on my team." Some of you might even be going, "Oh my gosh,
 he's talking about me. We've all experienced this somewhere, some way shape or form."
 And that's the question that this person was asking was, "How do I deal with this?"
 So maybe you're scratching your head about leading this type of team member as well.
 The bigger problem is, is when they're influential and they tend to set a tone in the office,
 which sometimes in a positive way, but more often chances are it's coming out in a very negative way.
 So what happens on company time among team members isn't isolated. It doesn't just happen in a vacuum
 and you obviously, hopefully, obviously just can't ignore it and hope that it all goes away.
 In fact, all of this can have a huge impact on the culture in your workplace, and it probably already is.
 If you have somebody like this in your team and your business, then it's probably already impacting your culture.
 It doesn't have to just be a high DNC. You don't have to just go, "Well, that's the personality style that rocks the boat."
 No. All different personality styles rock the boat in different ways, but here's a deal.
 This can create volatility. It might cause people to blow up and get loud and create chaos.
 It's definitely disturbing to other team members. You probably have a good amount of team members on your team,
 or this is just massive conflict. Maybe they can't see the impact that they're having.
 If this is the person who's doing this, maybe they're not recognizing and they're most likely, it could go both ways.
 It could be that they are recognizing it, but they can't be out of control.
 They can't feel like they're out of control, so they can't do anything about it. They can't take responsibility or maybe they do see the impact that they're having.
 And they just still feel like they can't do anything about it, right? Hopefully they just don't recognize that they're what they're doing is having this type of an impact.
 Why is that important? Because that's a heck of a lot easier person to lead out of this.
 The person who does know that they're doing this, man, that becomes very difficult.
 They can also have a tendency to act as though nothing ever happened. You can see this personality style, this strong personality style.
 Have a tendency to act the next day as though nothing ever happened.
 Sometimes it's just because they've gotten over it, sometimes it's because they don't want to admit it.
 They don't want to recognize what's happening and what their part is.
 And so they don't take responsibility. Here's a deal of damage is done.
 People tend to walk on egg shells around this type of person.
 And if you don't take action, it could look like you, yes, you could look like you care more about the disruptor than the rest of the team.
 If you're showing your team that by not doing something about this, this person is allowed to get away with it, then how are they going to receive it? How would you receive it?
 Right, if you were on this team and you saw a leader not doing something about this, how would you feel?
 You would feel like they cared more about that person or worse, your team would probably believe that you were afraid of that person.
 Either way, the communication's still the same.
 They are not important enough to fight for.
 Dealing with unreliable team members can be a huge time sock for leaders, especially if you haven't put accountability in place.
 You've not been having tough conversations and it's been happening for a while, then it can become a really big time sock.
 The sooner you can get to it, the sooner you can cut that down.
 So we're going to be talking about this and what to do about it, right? How do we get rid of the extra and completely unnecessary stress?
 And that's the very stress and anxiety. What are things that we can do?
 So here's what you need to know. Everyone has already noticed the situation.
 If not everybody, most of the people probably have already noticed the situation.
 Now they're waiting for you to respond.
 Not just to react, but to actually do something about it.
 They want you to do what leaders are supposed to do and that is too lead.
 So let's talk about point number one, which is the problem. So back to the conversation on the mass of my call.
 As we drill down into the corrective action that this leader had been taking, which was mixed and really not getting to any great satisfactory results,
 we saw some inconsistencies with this unreliable team member.
 So as we look at the coaching and corrective action, when they sat down to review the situation with this person, the person will talk about how much they care about people.
 Even though their actions indicate the opposite. And I think that's the thing that got the leader stuck was that the person kept talking about how much they care about people.
 And they weren't getting to that connection of, yeah, but this is what you're doing, right?
 The person couldn't see the damage that they're out of control behavior was causing.
 Now remember, this is a high-dean high-c personality, a very task-focused person.
 So it's not the same as like a high-s or even a high-eye when they would say if that person says, you know, I care about other people. There's a difference, right?
 The DNC are very, very, very, very task-focused. The INS are very, very people-focused, right?
 So an INS saying they care about people is actually going to be more about the actual care for people. The DNC, it could go in a couple of different ways.
 You know, high-c is definitely going to be speaking in absolutes and it could very well be that this person is trying to convince themselves that they really do care about people.
 But the problem is, is that feeling out of control can cause somebody to really lose perspective.
 So it's very possible that this person is trying to get, and not saying that this person doesn't care about people.
 That's not what I'm saying.
 But when you have somebody who says, I really care about people and then you see the actions they take with people, and it goes against that concept,
 that goes against that belief system, then something is off, something is a mess, right?
 And so it's going to cause you as a leader to go, if you care about people, why do you keep doing this?
 Right? Why do you keep destroying people?
 Now, there was many different elements that I pushed in on this because there's some other aspects as well.
 Maybe it's not just a personality style.
 Issue, it could be a values issue. If this is somebody who's a high altruist, if you're like me, altruism is my highest value, my highest motivator.
 You know, we're the type of people that want to remove pain and suffering from the world.
 We want to develop people. We want to help people out.
 But we also can tend to be the dormants for society.
 So this is a big swing in the same conversation.
 If we're talking about personality styles, it could be this stuff over here. If we're talking about values, it could be this over here.
 It could be that as an altruist, maybe he has been helping people out or does care about people.
 But he feels like he's been run over so many times and you know, been the dormant to society and have been abused in this and been taken advantage of it's very possible that that's the situation.
 So just like the old saying, hurt people hurt people, we find out a lot of times that some, some controlling people have been controlled by people in their past.
 Right.
 It can become a standard defense mechanism. It can become self protection.
 Now controlling people as a whole have had control in their lives.
 But somebody who is an altruist, I should have maybe said it that way.
 Somebody who is an altruist who is showing up very controlling most likely has had somebody very controlling in the life or or could be numbers of people. Right.
 So the surface problem isn't always the underlying problem.
 It's it's just a symptom. So if we're seeing the control, it may not be this is just a controlling person.
 It could very well be man, this person has been knocked around a lot.
 These are elements of things that we're talking to, right? It can be helpful to dig down and dig in a bit in order to uncover the the motivator behind the behavior.
 So the first point is we've got to decide what is the problem. We've got to try and figure out what is the problem.
 I'm going to suggest to you perspective gathering is incredibly important in this moment.
 Are you spending time with this person digging in outside of the specific situation, right?
 If they keep deflecting to something else, then it might be time for you to try and dig in a little bit and find out if you can be cautious.
 But if you can find out maybe this person has been hurt, maybe this person is struggling with something.
 Some of the best ways to do this is to just present to the I care about people comment, the actual situations and ask them to explain it.
 Hey, help me to understand that I'm hearing you know, have a really good caring concern voice legitimately actually care and be concerned.
 I'm hearing you say that you care about people, but here's the actions I see.
 So here's where I am. I just want to understand it. Can you help me to understand if you care about people, how does this action align with that and see what they say?
 What you may be able to get down into if they can get there and if you can guide them there as well, we say guiding people to self discovery.
 It's kind of funny because it's actually not legitimate self discovery. You're actually guiding them to that place, but if they can come up with it on their own in their own minds, then they might be able to share some information with you that helps you to understand why they're doing what they're doing.
 Now at the end of the day, if they can't get there, then we have to say that the attitude does not.
 It doesn't matter if they say they care about people, the actions are not aligning with that.
 So point number two, we have to get to again as much as possible the room. So asking these perspective gathering questions is incredibly helpful. Why is this situation this issue so important to you?
 Have others taken advantage of you here in your past?
 Is there, why are you so passionate about how you're handling this situation or this issue? When you can use the word passionate because it's very possible that they're looking at their attitude as passion while you're looking at it as being a jerk.
 So gaining that perspective, digging in with some of these questions, if this is something recent or work related, then let's see if we can bring closure to it. Can we get it closed up, buttoned up and be done with it.
 Or is this something that's going to continue? So if it's something that is recent, but not work related, then let's suggest finding the help that they need to get to it.
 So if it's something outside of business, it's not something recent inside of work, then there's maybe something deeper, however, if it's like from 20 years ago, then really there shouldn't be any outbursts.
 That means that there's something else that is really really piling up inside of this person either way at any rate.
 The behavior itself is unacceptable. If it's something recent during work, let's get it buttoned up. If it's something that's maybe not so recent that's in their personal life, let's suggest that they get help.
 Either way, we've got to get to the ability of saying, this is unacceptable.
 If they can give you great perspective and help you to understand what the root is, then you can help them to understand why they're acting the way that they are.
 This may at least give a little bit of pause to how they're acting in the future.
 Either way, it must must be addressed. You need to have a sit down discussion.
 It may need to be a tough discussion. It may be a good chat, caring chat, but either way, you've got to discuss it. You need to discuss your culture.
 We do not do this here. I understand what you're experiencing. I understand what you're going through, or at least I'm hearing you. I'm seeing this.
 But this is unacceptable in our culture. We do not allow this in our culture. Make sure that they understand. Make sure that you're asking questions. Do you agree with that?
 Do you understand what I'm saying? And this is an area where I will find myself asking multiple times the same question just different ways to see is there anything I'm missing?
 Don't want the person walking out the door going, well, he didn't listen to me. She didn't listen to me. Right? Make sure that they understand that what they're attitude was the thing that they did.
 Do you see how you acted? Do you see how you responded? Okay. Do you see that that's not acceptable here? Do you have questions? Do you agree with me?
 Here's a great question. Do you disagree with me? Do you believe you did not do that? Are you believe that what I'm saying here is not accurate with what our culture?
 Whatever it is, try and dig in and see if you can't get to greater truth.
 Right? So this needs to be done in a, hey, it's not acceptable period, but it also needs to be done so that they can see that you are protecting both them and the culture.
 Hey, I want to help you with this. I don't want this to be something that causes you to not be able to be here, but I also need you to understand. I have a team of people and a culture that I must protect.
 These are all things that we need to be doing. So after you're digging in, we're working on this route point number two, you're digging in, you're gaining quality perspective.
 Then we have to offer choices and consequences. And this is something that no matter how many times I say it, I can't stress this enough. You need to use the words choices and consequences.
 I'm just trying to say, "You're choosing to violate the culture here." I can't explain this well enough. I can't just pound this home enough. If you say you're violating the culture here, you're leaving room for them to blame you.
 I know it doesn't sound logical in your brain. You're going, "Chris, I literally just told them they're violating the culture. I get that. I understand. If you want it to be more powerful and you want it to be driven home, change your verbiage to your choosing to violate our culture here."
 Once you point out that it's their choice, they're either going to do one or two things. They're going to push back hard and say that is not what I chose to do.
 Or they're going to have to wrestle with the fact that it is their choice.
 But if you just tell them they're violating the culture, they can still go, "I disagree." In their own mind, "I disagree. You're wrong. Yadiyada, you're just having a bad day in being a jerk yourself."
 They can do all kinds of stuff by putting it back on you. But when somebody recognizes that the thing that they're doing is their own choice and 98% of people will get there, there's a percentage of people who still can't.
 When they can recognize that it's their own choice to violate the culture, then they don't put the blame on you or anybody else.
 If they can get to the recognition that they made a choice to do this thing, even if they have some way of actually making it okay in their mind, well, I chose to do that because of someone's over here.
 But you still chose your violation. You could have chosen to come to me because so-and-so did such and such.
 But instead of doing that, you chose this over here. By pointing out that it's a choice, it helps them to see, well, crap at the end of the day, it still was my choice.
 Now, parents, same thing with your kids, same thing, quit getting so crazy blown up upset and mad because your kid keeps doing something stupid.
 Quit getting so upset because they keep doing the same thing. Use that, hey, you chose to do that. They're four.
 And we switch to the next piece of this. You're choosing using the words, you're choosing your consequence.
 Because you chose that, you've chosen this consequence. So, the example I like to use is super easy.
 Hey, you chose to show up late to work again today. Therefore, you're choosing to get written up.
 Well, I couldn't do anything about the traffic. There was a bunch of traffic. Okay. Have you driven to work before? Yes. Has there been traffic before? Yes.
 Could you have chosen to leave early? Well, I don't want to get here too early. So you're choosing a right up instead of being here too early.
 See, all of that pushes everything back to their choice. If you choose to do this, you're choosing this consequence.
 So things that could have been said or should be discussed with this specific situation that we're talking about. Hey, I'm here to help you.
 I'm here to protect them. Here to lead. I will work with you and lead you to success.
 But you have to follow our culture. You have to follow and cooperate with the things that we put in place. If you choose not to, then you're choosing this consequence.
 Right? So you're filled with stuff. And now, if you do that, you can help this person to get to a place of recognizing crap. This is decision making.
 If I choose this, I choose that. If I get caught choosing this, then surely this person's going to give me this consequence. So parents, guess what you're creating in your children.
 Quality decision making. Hey, you can go ahead and choose to talk back to me. But if you do, then you're choosing this consequence.
 You're going to get the consequence. I'm not even going to get mad. I don't have to get mad because you're choosing the consequence.
 Same thing with the team member. So hopefully all of that is making a lot of sense. Use the words. What will happen when you start to do that?
 Well, with a controlling personality style, they may blow up. They may think that they can control you with a threat of anger.
 So be prepared. There's a possibility that they will blow up things that you can use.
 One of the things I will work and work and work and work and I rarely use this. I rarely use this phrase.
 But I probably use it. I don't know once a year or so. I phrase that I will use is, hey, take caution with your tone right now.
 Even the most controlling person can recognize that that what I just said and go, well,
 I need to reevaluate what I'm doing. Now, somebody super controlling. They will evaluate it and they may keep coming back at you.
 Just be prepared. But most of the time that I've ever used that phrase, it helps a person to, I'm with,
 I've done that with a client in the past who was super blowing up and just going ballistic.
 Super helps that person to go, oh, I'm really out of control right now, right?
 Another thing you can say is I highly suggest that you not do X. I highly suggest that you not talk to me that way,
 that you not blow up. I highly suggest such and such, right?
 Something that I will ask for time to time. Are you sure you want to respond this way?
 There's many times I've done this with clients, team members, vendors, children.
 You know, it really helps somebody to go, wow, you're giving me a chance in the middle of this.
 You're not even battling me back. You've not even fired on me. You've not done anything.
 You're really giving me a chance to take a hard look at myself. Are you sure you want to respond this way?
 Which is saying, go ahead. Just understand if you keep stepping forward, consequences are coming.
 Something's going to happen, but I'm giving you a redo right now. I'm giving you an out.
 You can stop right now and not continue to respond this way, right? So it's super helpful.
 Another thing you can do is use a very important word.
 No.
 Something you could say is, I need to leave right now. No, this is not acceptable.
 No, I'm not going to sit here and listen to this. No, you can keep this blow up or attack or whatever if they're doing it.
 Make sure you put a healthy boundary and I have to leave this conversation or you have to leave this conversation right now.
 So it can be very powerful for you to say, this is just going to do nothing but get worse.
 And I don't think either one of us can control this right now. I think we need to stop this and come back out later.
 Another thing you can do is if somebody continues to blow up, use the phrase over and over again, help me to understand.
 Right, so somebody is blowing up and having that bad attitude and pushing back on you, you can say, okay, help me to understand why you're so angry right now.
 Why are you so defensive right now? I'm experiencing you and trying not to just tell them what they are.
 Tell them that you're experiencing you's being very angry right now. I'm not angry. Okay.
 Well, your response sure sounds like it. Can you help me to understand why you're responding this way?
 You know, in this type of situation, this sure is a lining with what the whole topic is about.
 I'm seeing you respond in what appears to be a very angry and defensive and self-protective way, which is literally the conversation that we're having in the first place.
 So this is a lining with the tough conversation that we started to have today.
 And I'm going to push back again on your caring for people because right now you don't seem to care for anybody but yourself.
 Because look at how you're responding, right? So again, try to use the phrase I'm experiencing you as help me to understand those are things that you can do.
 So this is really helping you to force accountability to the person's actions and helping them to acknowledge their actions.
 As in all my essays and seas out there, just going, oh my gosh, I don't think I could ever do this.
 Folks, I'm a high S. Yes you can. Yes you can. It just takes practice.
 It takes you not being emotionally handcuffed to the conversation at the time. It takes you not getting handcuffed to responding to whatever they say.
 Don't go into crazy defensive mode. You have to protect you all that kind of junk.
 Instead, focus on what the person is doing. Keep your head level.
 Recognize they are the one with the problem.
 And then push back on what they're doing. Yes you can do this. If you can do it, then there's a really good chance of saving the person and getting things back on the right track.
 All right, point three, which is the fix first thing you have to do is what I just said there.
 I keep giving you the next point at the end of the previous point.
 You have to maintain control.
 You have to maintain control of yourself. You have to be in control.
 Maintain control of the culture. You have to lead the team member to greater perspective themselves.
 No matter what, you have to work hard at getting that perspective out on the table.
 So here's the bottom line. You cannot lead and be out of control.
 You can't let your leaders lead others the same way as well. If you're out of control, if your leaders are out of control, then what is it telling your team?
 You have to lead your team hopefully to gain quality perspective.
 You have to work hard on gaining quality perspective if you're out of control and you're having outbursts. What does that tell the team?
 How can you possibly tell me that I shouldn't have outbursts when you're doing the very thing?
 If you're not gaining quality perspective, then how could you tell somebody else that they need to get quality perspective?
 Right? So, and by the way, make sure that gaining quality perspective is not a deflection from the actual topic.
 So in other words, if you're trying to focus on a topic, you know, hey, you've been late three times this week.
 And Jane over there has been stealing paper clips. How come you're not getting under her?
 What happens is a lot of times somebody can deflect from the actual conversation and point to something else to try and get you to focus on that thing so that they don't have to take responsibility.
 I've had many times. People tell me that I'm not gaining perspective from them. When I am, I'm asking these questions, but every time I ask the question, they deflect to something else.
 Look at this over here so that they don't actually have to answer the question, but it sounds as though they are being, you know, honorable by saying, you're not getting the perspective.
 No, you just keep deflecting from the thing I keep asking. You will find a lot of very controlling people using that tactic.
 It's very obvious if you're not emotionally handcuffed to the situation. So, when they're outbursts, when nobody's getting perspective, then you've got to push back on this stuff.
 And it's you, then you've got to stop you. You've got to keep you from doing it. But assuming you're not, then we need to make sure that your pushing back or leadership is pushing back on a situation.
 Is the team member making assumptions are they making absolute statements? Are they deflecting? Are they making accusations? Are they using facts? Are they using feelings? Do you hear all the time? I feel this or, you know, it seems like you're doing this or you're making me this.
 You know, is all of that feelings versus facts? Are there actual data points that are being used? Are they actually holding themselves accountable? Are you holding them accountable? Is anybody holding anybody accountable?
 Or do we just have a ton of victims?
 Right. If we don't put these things in place, if we don't have good quality accountability, perspective gathering, not losing our heads, fighting for the culture, fighting for the team. If we don't have this, then what we're going to end up with is what we see a ton in society today. And that's a bunch of victim mentality.
 And I can tell you, there is no fun operating a team or a business that's full of victim mentality. It's a class of waste of time. It's a waste of time. Right?
 There's no point in running that team. You gotta get the victim mentality out. You gotta get changes out. You gotta focus on the culture. You gotta focus on accountability.
 If you will do these things, it will radically change the culture in your business when you resolve the issue with the person who keeps blowing up.
 The person who keeps everyone on edge and having everybody walking on egg shells. So if what I've shared today resonates with you, maybe you're feeling a little stuck with a team member who doesn't want to be lit or just is a handful to deal with.
 Then maybe it's time to have a business coach who can walk you through the process in a step by step format.
 This is easy to do. Sign up for a free coaching call at crystalqrido.com/mastermind.
 Don't just keep struggling and don't keep hoping that things will change on their own.
 Reach out to our team today and find out how to solve this again. Go to Chrissacrido.com/mastermind and click the button for a free coaching call.
 We will get you the help you need and our team will show you how to connect with other business owners and leaders in one of our next level mastermind groups.
 So don't delay the help you need is available today. So let's wrap this up. Here's a deal.
 You can give people a chance to change but they have to choose to change. If they can't choose to change then they are by default actually choosing to leave the team.
 Why? Because they are behaving contrary to the culture.
 Do you see yourself sabotaging yourself out of this business or relationship? It's a great question to ask.
 Keep in mind you have to be at a position where you're right.
 This has to be something where you're pushing on somebody who is out of control and making bad decisions.
 Do you see that you are sabotaging yourself out of this business or out of this relationship?
 I have had to ask that question to handle people in my life.
 Not a lot but probably two or three.
 Because of the accountability that was already in place, every time the answer was yes I do see that.
 And at least twice the answer following that was but I don't know how not to.
 We can work with that. We can do stuff about that. We can change that.
 If you can recognize that you are self-sabotaging.
 So it's your job as a leader to at least try and turn that person around.
 Now personality styles high seas, high ds, eyes, ss, and even who aren't healthy or mature can have control struggles.
 They've got to get out of the hypothetical imagined situations and stay grounded in reality.
 They've got to get to understanding what actual reality is.
 Facts versus feelings. Those are important things to understand. Victims like to vent and look for villains.
 You cannot be a victim without a villain.
 There has to be a villain if you're going to be a victim.
 This way they shift responsibility away from themselves and on to others thus continuing the cycle of victimhood.
 Now there are legitimate actual victims in this world and there is an incredible number of people with just victim mentality.
 Again, you've heard me say this before. Victim mentality is vogue right now.
 If you can show yourself a victim, then man, people appreciate it. It's just a crazy thing.
 It's just insane.
 All of it is a form of self-sabotaging. There's no room for it in a healthy work environment.
 So if you find that there's a lot of victim mentality in your work environment, then you need to start questioning your work environment itself.
 Do you have the right culture in place? Have you been making sure that people are honoring the culture?
 So for more on victim and villain mentality, check out our series of episodes from 495 to 498.
 Well folks, that's all the time we have for today. I hope that this information has helped me.
 As always, you want to take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]