 For some leaders, meetings can be something they look forward to.
 For others, especially those cotton leadership crazy cycle, it's completely something
 else.
 We're going to dive into that coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover
 that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 On today's show, I am joined with two amazing men, former shoe model, Joel Fortner.
 Welcome to the show, Joel.
 Yeah, thank you.
 It was a successful run there for a while.
 It was good back in the early 80s, right?
 I love the shoe model, successful run, great job, Joel.
 Current star of the Milan Runway, Brian Alex.
 Welcome, Brian.
 And I'm not telling what I'm modeling, but I'm the star of the show.
 That's right.
 So we've got some really fun things lined up for today's show.
 What is it?
 It's another three rules episode.
 And what we're talking about today is our meetings and necessary evil.
 Are they vital to communication?
 Are they actually helpful to the team?
 No, a lot of people listen to this are going.
 I stink and hate meetings.
 Meeting suck.
 Well, for some leaders, you know, maybe if you're a high eye or maybe if you're a high political
 meetings can be something that you look forward to.
 For others, especially those that are cotton leadership crazy suck, like we said, it can
 be something else.
 There are lots of reasons why meetings should be important to leaders.
 But here are some more reasons that meetings are important for you and your team.
 Leadership happens.
 Getting people together, reinforcing and training.
 People getting developed, celebrating wins, getting testimonials, discussing culture, seeing
 your team grow, discuss the mission, the vision, the values.
 Learning as a group together, discussing understanding, taxing the collective intelligence.
 But this is not every leader's mindset or thought process.
 So the question is why is that why is their tension when it comes to meetings?
 So for this, I would like to go to the former shoe model.
 I don't know why I chose shoes, but hey, there you have it.
 Joel, you weren't talking about baking, were you like, you know, the shoe, what is it called?
 The shoe dough that they make?
 What is that I'm talking about?
 I don't know what you're talking about.
 This is going to be a nice thing.
 This is going to be a nice thing.
 Anyways, when I'm not effectively leading people in my life, I want to watch the great
 British bake-off.
 And these things are so inspiring to me.
 It's such a great show.
 But, you know, on this seriously, on this meeting of like, why do meetings stink in some people's
 minds?
 I think that a lot of leaders can have an assumption that meetings are easy.
 And like, we should do that.
 We should meet.
 That's easy.
 That's no problem.
 They're not trained.
 Word legitimately not trained on how to actually lead meetings well.
 We get together, and expectation is, I guess we're going to talk about this thing.
 And the expectation is, or the assumption is, it's going to go well.
 Not factoring in.
 It's a bunch of different people with different personality styles.
 Not everybody wants to be there.
 Maybe people don't even know why they're there.
 Maybe they're the wrong people in the room.
 And all these things that come on.
 But I think we can have expectations at meetings you're supposed to be this easy thing.
 And then long ago, in our life, we realized, this stink.
 This isn't going very well.
 I don't like this.
 I don't like leading them.
 I don't like the arguing.
 I don't like the conflict.
 Do we really need to have meetings to be successful?
 And I listened to this one thought leader out there that says, I don't need to have meetings.
 So I'm going to subscribe to that.
 And let's just move forward.
 Yeah, I think it is amazing how the thought of, how can we get away with not having
 meetings?
 I'd like you just said, you've got those that love the meeting process.
 You have folks that, like me, I love to tax the collective intelligence.
 I love to find out what I'm missing.
 I want to gain quality perspective.
 So for me, meetings have an incredible purpose.
 But I think so many folks set meetings up because they believe they're supposed to.
 And then they have no mission for the meeting.
 They have no clue what it's supposed to look like.
 They have no clue why people think it's so great.
 And then here's what can tend to happen.
 The dollar signs, the leader or the business owner who starts calculating the payroll, sitting
 around the table of people who aren't giving good quality input.
 You know, of the dude who's over in the corner who's doodling on his note pad because he doesn't
 understand that personality style.
 The folks that can't possibly give input because they weren't prepared ahead of time.
 Somebody's calculating the payroll around the table going, forget this.
 This is stupid.
 If I wanted this, I just give people time off.
 The frustration is not because meeting suck.
 It's funny.
 We do so many strapplans and in there will have a new leadership team that comes in and they
 struggle with meetings and I'll say, hey, there's a great ebook out there by some guy.
 I don't know what his name is.
 But oh, yeah, Chris LeCordo called, why you're meeting suck?
 And it's like nobody sitting around the table has read that thing, right?
 And there's information of how to fix it.
 What to do with it?
 But here's the funny thing.
 How many people actually go find it?
 How many people go, I'm struggling with meetings.
 I'm finding out that, you know, I feel like meeting suck.
 But I'm instead of doing something about it, I'm just going to stop doing meetings.
 And then they end up affecting the whole company.
 So yes, there's definitely tension there.
 But the tension isn't that meeting suck as a whole.
 The tension is you're not doing meetings correctly.
 So with that's the stage of Milan.
 I don't even know how it means.
 I don't even know what that means.
 How about it, Matt?
 Oh, man.
 Well, yeah, I mean, we're kind of dancing around the issue here.
 We're walking around the table.
 Let's sit down at the table and we're going to deal with a couple of rules.
 But you know, some of the things that come to mind, I mean, there's got to be personality
 that comes into play.
 You mentioned, you know, high high political, the motivators there.
 I'd love to dig into that as we get into some of these rules.
 But you know, some people approach it with this high optimism.
 Oh, it's going to be great.
 Do no planning show up and, you know, for them, it's great.
 Because it's a social event.
 And for others, you know, your dees, your seas, they dread or they're like, you know,
 do I have to give input here?
 You know, and so a lot of leaders approach the idea of meetings.
 It's a battle of the wills.
 It's, you know, a lot of excuse making that happens.
 Blaine shifting rabbit trails wasted time.
 You know, wasted payroll like you're saying.
 And so the core question that we're trying to answer today is can meetings be something
 that leaders actually look forward to.
 And, you know, for that matter, they're team members.
 And, you know, we're not saying it's got to be a party every time.
 And you've got cake and ice cream and, you know, balloons everywhere.
 But what, what would make it effective?
 Can they be helpful?
 Can it be even energizing and hopefully we'll get that today?
 And so moving into the rules.
 If this is your first time hearing about the three rules, we just, we make up three rules,
 kind of arbitrarily.
 And we try to agree, disagree, reframe the question, reframe the answer in a way, in in line with
 how we do business here at the Poimaine group.
 And so looking at this through the lens of the first rule, here we go.
 How to make your meetings more effective.
 Number one, a new mindset.
 And this is not Emperor's new clothes.
 This is like really having a change of opinion about why meetings matter.
 And so if we were to substitute the word meetings for high quality in person communication and
 discussion with positive and effective outcomes, then it tends to take on a little bit of
 a different light.
 And so starting with that mindset, let's unpack that.
 Okay, mindset, let's say we agree on that.
 What would that new mindset look like?
 What does that entail?
 You know, I think the mindset and perspective that we need to have is remembering that meetings
 should always be attached to a strategy or to purpose.
 Otherwise why are you having the meeting?
 That meetings should be like they are always in context.
 If you don't need the meeting, check the meeting.
 If you have the standard meeting and you don't need that week, check the meeting.
 We don't need to do it.
 We shouldn't just meet for meetings sake.
 But what we should look at is say, if you've got a really clear, a middle rule,
 a really big picture to small here, if you've got a really clear mission and you've got a clear
 vision or you've got clear visions, meaning destinations you're trying to get to and you've
 backed out and you've developed strategies for how to get to those things and implement those
 things, you should have also discovered what meetings do you need?
 What's purposeful?
 Winner your check in meetings, when you're one on one meetings, when you're team meetings,
 when are your strategy review meetings, when are your progress meetings, whatever the meetings
 are, the point is they exist within mission vision and strategies rather than working half meetings.
 Why?
 Meetings are tactical.
 They're very tactical and meant to move things forward and to facilitate accountability
 and communication and or to solve problems.
 Yes, one of my favorite meetings I had recently in the last few months, it was that proverbial,
 I had a meeting to talk about it meeting.
 And so that sounds like, oh my gosh, you did that.
 Let's see what happens.
 Let me, let me reveal what I was doing.
 We were having a quarterly planning meeting months and months ago and this was a thankfully
 a rare time where a meeting did not go well.
 And then it's a, well, that's not acceptable for a meeting to not go well and not talk about
 it.
 We're going to debrief it and we're going to find out guys what happened and we're going to talk
 about communication and we're going to have a meeting to debrief a failure.
 It wasn't a meeting to debrief and let's talk about a meeting because this was about culture.
 This was about communication because we had a meeting that was set up as part of a strategy.
 And that key meeting did not go well.
 Well, we have a strategy that we're still trying to implement.
 We still need to move things forward.
 So we need to have a meeting about this meeting, but the biggest point is like, don't
 just have meetings that set and without a context.
 So go to other types of meetings like leadership meetings if it's not part of a strategy.
 I'm saying, well, why do I have these leadership meetings?
 Because I need to have one on once because if it facilitates empowering and setting up that team member
 for success, if it facilitates great communication, point is there's got to be context, there's
 got to be purpose.
 Yeah, okay.
 So pop quiz hot shot.
 Give me one in the movie.
 I don't know.
 Pop quiz hot shot.
 It was speed.
 It was done.
 What's his name?
 Dennis something.
 Dennis.
 So here's the question.
 What is the number one purpose of a meeting?
 Just a waste time.
 That's it.
 Communication.
 No, it's communication.
 Communication.
 It's, there's no other reason.
 There's nothing else.
 There's no point, I mean, except for the cake and ice cream thing, which I didn't know
 the other in those in the meetings.
 That's all you see.
 Yeah, I mean, really, the meeting is just the context for communication.
 Communication.
 Instead of an email or a text message or the other media that we could utilize for the
 ego listen to this or go do that, you know, it sets the context for that communication.
 Correct.
 So here's the deal.
 Every meeting, the number one purpose, the number one mission is to communicate.
 Now what it is to communicate, that is there's a variable number of things that we could
 be communicating, we could be brainstorming, we could, you know, we have something super
 important.
 All that stuff is ancillary.
 That's the second part of the purpose of a meeting.
 It is what is the context of the meeting.
 The thing that people run into and Brian, you kind of pointed this out from the person sitting
 in the meeting, but let's talk about the person leading the meeting.
 If listening to this episode, a high D goes, ahaha, see, I don't need any meetings.
 Then you completely miss the point.
 The point is to not have crappy meetings.
 Instead you're supposed to have really good meetings that are purposeful and communicate what
 you need to communicate.
 So here's the deal.
 If meetings suck for you, then you can have a tendency of just not having meetings and then
 you create a bigger issue.
 People don't know what the heck is going on.
 They don't know what's happening.
 They don't know what they're supposed to be doing.
 They don't know what they're winning.
 You know, all of these different meetings, you can have a meeting to brainstorm stuff,
 which should be set up properly well in advance, especially according to the personality
 style in the room.
 You don't just call that meeting and expect people to brainstorm.
 You could have a meeting to celebrate wins.
 Why?
 So you get the team fired up to keep winning.
 There's all different types of purposes for meetings.
 The problem is if we look at a meeting as a meeting and we say meetings have sucked for me,
 I'm just not going to do them.
 Then we break down communication in our business.
 The number one issue.
 Number one.
 Number one.
 Issue in all the businesses that we have ever worked with is a lack of high levels of quality
 communication.
 The number one issue.
 So you have to look at this as a leader in one, check your own personality style.
 If you're a high-deer, high-c, you probably hate these times.
 You know, you hate being in these meetings.
 And you have to ask yourself, what makes it purposeful?
 Why am I doing this?
 Because somebody needs to know something.
 Somebody needs to be communicated well with something so that they can go and run with it.
 Or they can go be a part of it.
 Or they can go share it with their team or or or.
 So big key is change your mindset that meetings are powerful tools.
 When you're tool belt, that if used correctly, if set up correctly, actually inspire the team,
 actually helps the team to move forward, actually helps the team to know what's going on.
 Because here's the converse.
 Don't communicate anything with your team and guess what's going to develop.
 Fear.
 Fear is going to develop because the team doesn't know what's going on, what they're supposed
 to be doing, how things are getting done.
 And then guess what people are going to think that the ship is going down and they're going to start
 ejecting, right?
 They're going to jump off the ship.
 So do not have the mindset that because meetings have sucked, I'm done forget that stuff because
 that's just dumping it on your shoulders.
 You're going to create a culture of fear and you're going to start losing quality team members.
 How's that for mindset?
 It's mindset.
 Yeah, and it's fear.
 It's frustration.
 It's a sense of the ambiguity for some personality styles is just torture.
 And so that we've already bled into rule number two, set the strategy.
 So set the strategy, set the purpose of that meeting.
 Because if we have no expectations for our meetings, we will hit it every time.
 You can't have healthy outcomes, effective meetings without a clear purpose.
 You don't get a clear purpose without purposefully sitting down to set the strategy.
 Maybe that's where you are.
 Maybe meetings have sucked and you need to sit down with the leaders and say, what do we hope
 to accomplish in having this team meeting?
 Maybe it's, you know, Joel, like you said, it's okay.
 There is no need for this because we've determined that that purpose does not exist.
 Cancel the meeting.
 Create a new one if and when you've got purpose behind it.
 Having set the strategy, then now you have to think about what are the necessary steps that
 will get us there.
 And when it doesn't work, when there's failure, like you said, Joel, you got to have a debrief.
 And you look at the failure.
 Go, what happened?
 How did it happen?
 How do we prevent it from happening again?
 We go through our process, but we've got to set the strategy.
 Any other comments there?
 We've already talked about rule two without introducing it.
 But there it is.
 We've got to set the strategy.
 Any insight into how to do that if people are stuck there.
 Yeah, first, I think we have to define what strategy is for so many folks because something
 that gets convoluted all the time.
 And I don't understand how is mission vision strategy even goals.
 So we just like to simplify it and say, hey, everybody, go with what we're saying for right
 now and we'll all be on the same page.
 So mission is your purpose for anything.
 Whatever it is, that's your purpose.
 Why does this exist?
 So what is this meeting exists?
 What is this company exist?
 What is my marriage exist?
 What is my relationship with God exists?
 That's your purpose.
 What's the purpose of this thing?
 Vision is the destination you're heading to.
 You should have one mission per area per thing.
 But you can have 700 destinations because you're constantly going to the next destination,
 the next one, the next one.
 And so we very briefly, I'm rushing through this to not make this a four hour long episode.
 Everybody's been to the beach or can understand what it's like to be at the beach.
 You can envision the beach being there.
 What it's going to be like, the games you're going to play, the cooler you're going to take
 down to the beach.
 If you're going to bring it on, bro, if you're going to lay out beach towels or if you're
 going to rent lounge chair, whatever it is, where you're going to go eat at nighttime.
 Where you're going to stay.
 What's the destination that we're headed to is the beach.
 The strategy is how we get to the all the steps that it takes for us to get to the beach.
 And goals are things you can hit along the way.
 So if we use those definitions and you're sitting down to one, you have a mission for your
 meeting.
 Here's the purpose, the purpose is that I want to, I want to brainstorm a new product idea.
 Let's say that that's what we're doing.
 I want to brainstorm a new product idea.
 What is the strategy to accomplish that?
 The first thing you have to do is figure out who needs to be in the room.
 You have to decide who should be a part of this brainstorming session.
 What a lot of leaders will do is pull the whole team in.
 A whole team, we're stopping during this time of the day.
 We're going to go brainstorm something.
 They pull everybody in the room.
 They throw an idea on the table.
 The S is in C's have no input whatsoever because they haven't had time to process.
 The eyes are jumping and giving all the ideas of how it's going to work or what they can
 do to make it better.
 The D's are telling you, that's probably a really bad idea.
 I don't know.
 They're ripping that apart.
 It's just a free throw and it's a mess.
 What's the strategy you've got to start by who should be in there?
 What's their personality styles?
 How are they going to respond?
 If you've got season S is coming to this room, you've got to tell them and I would tell
 this to everybody involved.
 Hey guys, we're going to have this meeting.
 It's going to be this far out because it's brainstorming for the love.
 Don't book it an hour from now.
 We're going to do it in two days.
 Here's the thing we're going to brainstorm this type of a product idea.
 Give me three ideas on how to make this work.
 Give me three ideas and how this is going to fail.
 Give me three alternative ideas.
 Give them the ability to process through, come up with stuff so they can step into the
 meaning.
 These are the things that you need to do.
 Of course, there's a lot more stuff.
 Make sure that you're putting a good quality time on the calendar.
 You're not jacking up super productive time.
 Make sure that you're communicating clearly in the email, the calendar invite, yaddi, yaddi
 out of there's a whole ton of stuff that you can do to set that strategy.
 Here's what we're walking in.
 Again, there's a lot more.
 If I let it all out, we're walking into this meeting completely prepared to start a meeting
 and for the eyes in the room, we're going to spend a couple of minutes just talking about how
 the week has been or how they're weekend has gone or what's going on in their life.
 We can have a couple of minutes of just, just discuss, free the room up and then let's hit
 this thing.
 We know what's going to happen.
 We've got an order of how we're going to process through this.
 We're going to get the best information we can with what we've done.
 Here's the converse of this.
 What people do every day, every week on a weekly basis, we tell people we're having a meeting,
 we don't tell them what it's about.
 We show up in the room, we drop an idea on the table and we expect greatness.
 How can we possibly expect greatness when our strategy is show up and then I'll surprise
 you with what I want you to answer.
 Answer about.
 Yes, it's strategy important in sayingly important.
 If you want a productive meeting.
 I would echo that.
 This is those line leaders who are stuck in the leadership crazy cycle.
 It's so difficult to do these things because you just don't have time to be this intentional.
 I'm not even thinking about that.
 You're not even doing meetings, you're blowing off meetings, you're canceling meetings,
 you're moving meetings around.
 All these meetings, let's assume they all have purpose and good intent and meeting consistency.
 I find is a hallmark of a great team that there is consistency of meeting.
 There's consistency of showing up.
 There's consistency in communication and that's where traction happens and things start getting
 done and because you're working coheesibly as a team.
 All of a sudden the leader isn't there and they blow it off.
 They're not there.
 They move it again.
 They don't show up again.
 And now we haven't met in a month.
 We haven't met a month because we're just so busy.
 We're so stressed and the team is wondering when we're ever going to meet.
 If we're ever going to meet and it becomes as you mentioned Chris, the fear but it also becomes
 very frustrating.
 Assuming that you've got people on your team that actually want to get things done.
 This is why like a leadership crazy cycle, you know, that we teach about effective meetings and
 we go into that, that learning to lead effective meetings is a key part of getting out of the
 leadership crazy cycle.
 Right now you may have been like, man, I've got to make this transition from not doing them to doing
 them and I'm going to have to force them in why.
 So you can delegate.
 You can train, you can offload things to people, rather than all staying stuck in your
 team.
 And so it's the power of the power of going into meetings with such great intentionality.
 I think that's a really a word that we're talking about today is having great just intent and
 intention about your meetings.
 That because if you're not doing that as a leader, who is going to do that for your meetings?
 Yeah, that's great.
 I love the intentionality, the diligence.
 What you said just a second ago, I think is super important for high D's and C's like myself,
 just that consistency in the communication that gets you traction.
 I mean, that sounds so hopeful if I can consistently communicate and like we say around here high levels of high quality
 communication, not just communication, blah, blah, blah, but it's purposeful.
 And like you said, you've got to take that time, sit down and set that strategy, be intentional.
 And a lot of the people that don't feel like they have time to have the meeting are the ones that need
 to have that meeting the most and that intentional purposeful high quality communication to actually get traction and get them out of
 some of those cycles that they're that they're currently in.
 And so that's so important.
 Moving to rule number three curb your enthusiasm and curb it up.
 And so here's what we mean because I'm thinking as a C and a D, you know, I don't necessarily share your enthusiasm,
 Joel for meetings.
 And you know, but as a leader, if you don't love meetings, here's here's what's going to happen.
 Your team won't love them either.
 If you as a leader tend to hate meetings, you're going to guess what, your team is going to learn to hate them just like you do.
 And so yeah, sure, some meetings are necessary but uninspiring.
 You know, you mentioned a few moments ago accountability checking in, these kinds of things are necessary type things, but yeah, not thrilling.
 Okay, but you've got to personally embrace the opportunity to sit down with your team to communicate well and lead them forward to success.
 This is going to spur on creativity is going to advance priorities and set vision for executing the plan.
 And your communication with your team about the meeting sets the expectations and the energy that they bring in.
 I love what you said Chris a minute ago, you got to give them time to once you've set that strategy.
 You've got to tell this is what we're going to have hope to accomplish.
 Here's your homework.
 Here's your, you know, the preparation process.
 Bring value.
 Bring thought.
 Bring ideation.
 Bring questions.
 Bring insight into the next meeting.
 And man, that is setting your team up for success.
 And leaders, if they'll leverage their meetings well, they can actually come away feeling fulfilled and energized.
 I wonder, is that how it give us some examples when you have felt you come out of a meeting and you go, man.
 I would do that meeting all day long because of the results we got the feeling of being energized and the team being empowered.
 What does that look like from your perspective?
 So those days Brian, like when I have tons of internal meetings like our team and it's a one on one and it's a it's a leadership development team meeting and it's another one on one and then it's another kind of meeting.
 I love those days so much because all the meetings like we do meetings pretty darn well here on the team.
 They are productive. They are high quality. They do move things forward. The communication is on point.
 And those days are so fulfilling to me because I love leadership.
 You know, I went to school, you know, half my life ago to do public relations.
 But you know what, I ended up loving leadership more than I loved PR.
 And that's what I gravitate toward. That's why I'm so enthusiastic about meetings.
 It's not just about gathering with people. It's about getting stuff done.
 It's about accomplishing things.
 It's about it's about developing a person. Even if it's a tough conversation.
 It's about advancing the ball down the field for me moving toward a vision,
 moving toward something that we're trying to get to.
 And so like when those days when I'm just filled with high quality internal meetings,
 amazing for me because to me it's all about leadership.
 It's all about getting goals done because I even though I'm not the business owner.
 You know, I'm a leader in this company and I carry with me constantly that we operating.
 We're a small business. We're trying to get a lot done.
 We have a lot of payroll on the team and that there's a very important mission that's sitting in our hands.
 That God has asked us to do and there are results that we're trying to get to.
 That just kind of under the current just drives me all the time.
 And I see meetings as as a lynch pin to getting all of that done.
 Yeah. So is far as curbing the enthusiasm up like I everything that Joel just said.
 There's nothing like great meetings.
 There's just nothing like it.
 And I think we should define and Joel pretty much just did.
 But just to add on to that is a great meeting in my mind is when I walk away.
 It's not about how I feel.
 It's not a personal. I'm excited. I really enjoyed that meeting.
 Although that happens all the time.
 There is nothing like walking away from it.
 It can be a one on one where you walk away from the meeting going.
 That person knows what they're doing.
 That person just got a piece of information that changed their day because they've been stuck on something.
 And maybe I didn't train something well enough.
 And now there's a new piece of information in BAM.
 They've got it. They're tackling it.
 And they've got the right personality that they're going to go implement it right away.
 That for me is where energy comes from.
 Right. That's where I get totally excited.
 And here's what I know.
 I know that excites the person as well.
 So that to me is a great meeting when the team is walking out going.
 We know what the heck we're doing. This is awesome. This is fantastic.
 With that being said, you have to be cautious for all of my 99 eyes out there.
 You can't just carry energy into a meeting and expect that your 99 C is going to saddle up.
 You know what? You would carry that same energy. It's not going to happen.
 It's not going to happen. Right?
 The energy needs to not be your energy for the meeting.
 It needs to be the energy for what we're trying to produce.
 So with that being said, it is not uncommon for a stand up 5, 10, 15 minute meeting with a sales team.
 That's on fire.
 All right guys. This is what we're focusing on. This is what we're going to try and get today.
 Let's make sure we're setting our goals.
 You know, you bring an energy, but those are people who are wanting that energy.
 Those are people who are needing that injection, right?
 But it's not the same thing in a brainstorming meeting where you've got a couple of Cs in there.
 A couple of Cs in there as well, where they're not looking for energy.
 They're just trying to figure out what the heck you're doing. What are you explaining?
 They're trying to be able to process stuff, right?
 So if you go in there with high energy, they're going to be like, I don't even know what you're talking about.
 And they will check out.
 So the energy needs to match again back to what Joel said earlier. What's the purpose? What's the mission of the meeting?
 If it is a high energy meeting, like it should be for sales people, great ramp it up.
 You know, I think it's excessive, but whatever.
 I've actually literally seen some people turn on some like strong beat music and you know, get everybody pumped.
 All right, let's get on the fire. Let's go. That's great. That's fantastic.
 You know, okay, whatever. That's not my personality style.
 But you know, I don't want to go into a meeting where we've got a two hour meeting set so that we could put together a product guide that I need people's Cs.
 You know, focused on the details of this thing. I'm not going to come in there. Let's go guys.
 Let's get all of our, you know, punctuation correct. Then let's make sure that art, you know, that's just it doesn't match.
 However, and I think this may be a long lines of where you are going with this with the curb your enthusiasm up.
 I have to show that I'm all in with that mission.
 Yeah. I've got to be pat passion and energy aren't necessarily the same thing.
 If I am passionate, we put out phenomenal workbooks for big events. I mean, I don't know how many pages this last one was for the next level leadership live in, but it was big.
 And it was gorgeous and it was fantastic.
 And that's something I'm passionate about. You know, guys, let's put out a great quality product that our people will nice it down. They're just like, wow.
 This is amazing. Right. I carry that passion in there that affects the team that affects their outlook and not only do I carry the passion, but I communicate it.
 Folks, here's what I want you to understand.
 If somebody, we've got Peter Chapman who's just a great friend of ours been a client for years, just a great friend like a 4000 see.
 He's just so detailed. You know, he's high sea, he's ID, just super detailed task person. He can find if he's sitting down and focusing on something he will find a mistake.
 We just are like Peter, take a look at this and let us know what if we've screwed anything. Well, praise God.
 We've got one of those on our team in Noelia. She does an incredible job with that.
 If a person is sitting down and I am not a high sea, I'm a, I think I'm now up to a 50 C, which I was a 10 in the 90s.
 I'm not the person who's going to sit down and find all your mistakes, but I will find a mistake. You know, when I see a mistake, it misses me up. It jacks me up.
 And so now I'm starting to ask the question, is the mistake something that I need to judge your quality on? Right?
 If I see a simple mistake, you know, how many times have you read a book and you know the word is wrong.
 That's not correct word, but the content of the book is phenomenal. One word is not going to, I'm not going to throw the book out on one word.
 But if I go through this thing and it's just crap and it's distracting and I keep finding mistake at the mistake at the mistake.
 Pretty soon, I'm probably chucking that book because if you didn't do your due diligence and guys, I'm not the one to do the editing. That's I'm not that person.
 I will hire that person. I'll pay that person to do that. But if you didn't do your due diligence on that editing, well, then I don't trust what you're speaking to, right?
 Now again, one, two, three mistakes doesn't blow me away, but if it's nothing but mistakes, if I'm looking at 20 mistakes, I'm probably done with you, right?
 Sharing that importance to a high sea to an oilia who is going to turn around or have you ever who's going to turn around and pour their effort and energy into this thing is vitally important.
 That they understand their product, their work product is going to keep people focused on the content, not to distract them away from it and possibly turn us off in their minds.
 That's important thing to be relaying to those people.
 So bring your passion, make sure they understand it, make sure they understand the purpose, make sure they understand the vision, help them to get on board,
 there's so many other things that we could share in this that we just don't have time.
 Real quick to add on to that because I think what you started speaking to in a way was giving that kind of even feedback to a team member, and that's part of setting somebody up for success.
 So Brian, you said a little while ago, it's like, you know, you don't share my enthusiasm for meetings.
 I completely get what you're talking about. I know you, I know your personality style, and it's like, that's I completely understand when you say that.
 And so I would say it's like, you don't, it's like, so you're like, you're not this all. I'm so enthusiastic and I love meetings.
 But you know something that you do love, you love information, and you love being set up for success.
 That's what you want. And that gives you confidence to be like, hey, are we going to be meeting?
 Are we going to be discussing this stuff? Am I going to be able to ask questions? Am I going to get what I need to do my job well? You value that immensely.
 And so like we talked so much about that even like when you're transition from the states over to Sicily, like how long ago now two and a half years ago, or something.
 And it was like, and we were like, you know what, these are all the meetings that we're putting in place.
 So that you have what you need so that you're not getting halfway around the world and it's like, shoot. I feel very disconnected or I feel like I'm not going to have what I need.
 And I'm like, we're going to have the meetings because the purpose of those was to set you up for success and for you and I to have great communication.
 And so again, it speaks to the purpose and as a leader, the context is of course we're going to have meetings.
 I'm absolutely going to, because I'm dedicated to you and I'm dedicated to setting you up for success.
 I don't want you to flop around and fail and not know what you're doing. And that speaks for anyone that I'm leading is that there's got to be that love.
 Love, love responsibility for people that you carry and then you can still write into meetings because you see it doesn't have to be flashy.
 There doesn't have to be, you know, frozen yogurt, but there's a purpose here and that's what we're doing this.
 Although there should be frozen yogurt.
 There should be.
 It helps.
 Every time the show is something baked, something baked like all the tables would help a lot.
 It's a morale builder.
 Joel's wheelhouse right there, the baker.
 Well, I mean, yeah, all of that is great perspective on why meeting should exist, how we can get to that point where we're looking forward to them.
 That's the whole point here.
 It's not about the hype.
 It's about the passion to know that we've created a context where communication and information flow and that people are going to get unstuck and that people are going to be empowered to go out and execute.
 What they've been hired on board to do and I want to throw just a curveball here at the very end.
 There's a bonus round to the three rules here.
 Here's the bonus.
 What leaders don't usually expect.
 And therefore, miss out on is the opportunity to learn from their team members.
 I know this is something that you guys do a fantastic job, but I've been on some teams where the leader is not interested in gaining perspective.
 Getting information, getting feedback, increasing their understanding from their team who are down there in the trenches in the day to day doing the thing.
 You know, but leaders can use meetings as a way to understand where their members are at.
 What's holding them back, speak into the workflow and really understand their business.
 There's a tendency that the farther removed a leader gets from the clients from the day to day.
 They can become a little.
 Yeah, isolated dissolution or just apart from disconnected from the reality.
 And this is an opportunity for the leader to do some learning.
 So yeah, speak into that. What does that make you think of when when I say all of that?
 Well, assuming that's a fourth rule.
 Yes, I mean, that's a fourth rule.
 I totally agree with the bonus.
 Yeah, it's great.
 And it's exactly right.
 You know, and you know, some of it's a, some of it's very surface level, you know, tactical information.
 That's that feels very safe for this kind of a learning feedback meeting.
 It's a whole other thing when you can be the very vulnerable leader and open yourself up for, hey, how can I lead you better?
 Where am I not leading you will? What do you not have what you need? You have to reach a level of vulnerability to feel like,
 Oh, I want to have that meeting.
 I will, I encourage you leaders to aspire to get to that place, but yeah, it's the bonus fourth rule is a great one.
 Yeah, I hire smart people.
 I don't like hiring people that can't add to the collective intelligence.
 And so for me, I am excited.
 I'm always just expecting that somebody is going to come up with something that I don't, I don't know about.
 I haven't heard yet. I haven't seen that point of view.
 Whatever.
 I just don't know how to state it well enough.
 Yeah, let me just say this way. If you're focused on you, you're probably not learning a lot from your team.
 If you are vulnerable, like Joel just said, oh my gosh, I love love,
 I love taxing the collective intelligence, getting new information for myself, getting new information for the people around the table.
 But one of the things I love is that when you help your team to think for themselves because a lot of them come from bad leaders that don't.
 When you allow them to think for themselves, oh my gosh, it just opens a spicket, right?
 And then ideas flow and good stuff quality, not everything's great.
 Some stuff sucks, but that's with all of us, right?
 But it causes them to start giving a lot of input that becomes so beneficial.
 I don't want my people shut down. I want them speaking up.
 I want them asking the question, is this quality?
 And then I want them sharing stuff as much as possible.
 So yes, I agree with that.
 Yeah, it's good. And as I'm kind of processing what you guys are saying, I'm thinking from the point of view as a team member sitting in that meeting.
 I know some of the biggest aha moments that I've had in a meeting is when I've been expressing what I'm experiencing or the workflow,
 where I'm getting stuck, things like that, and a leader is able to say to me,
 "Right, here's what I hear you saying." And just hearing that feedback and getting their input and their point of view on it,
 it is just reframing where I've already been, but there's just a missing piece.
 There was a different angle that they approach it as, and that value back to me makes me feel as a team member.
 Wow, that was an effective meeting. I just got unstuck.
 And also I think the leader walks away thinking, "Okay, now I know where Brian is personality's wiring,
 or the set of obstacles that he's up against. This is where he can get stuck.
 I am going to help him get unstuck there.
 And we're going to watch out for that together. That's the team work.
 That makes the dream work. But, you know, leader, it's a year job to make your team successful, not the other way around.
 So here's the three rules, a rehearsed back to you.
 Mindset, you got to change the mindset you've got to set the strategy and you've got to curb your enthusiasm up in order to have effective meetings.
 Absolutely. And folks just think about it this way.
 If I've got to be the one with all the ideas, and I've got to be the one who sets all the direction and tone,
 and I don't tax the collective intelligence, then I'm the one running the whole business.
 And what I colossal, not only waste of my time and everybody else's time, but I colossal waste of talent.
 So hopefully this has been helpful to you today.
 Thank you, gentlemen, for joining us. I appreciate it as always.
 Great job. Thank you, guys, for being with me.
 My esteemed pleasure.
 Yes, dido, dido.
 My self esteemed pleasure.
 My very nice, not worth my unworthy pleasure of being here.
 All right, well guys, as you can see, this is fun for us.
 We hope it's good for you. We hope you are taking a lot away from this.
 Help somebody else to get this information, share it, tell them about it.
 Help us to reach more folks.
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]