 Are you a control freak leader?
 Do you know a control freak leader?
 We're going to be talking about all of that on today's show.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover
 that businesses what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today I am having another fabulous day.
 Why?
 Because I am joined by the fearsome and brave Mr. Joel Fortner.
 Welcome to the show, Joel Fortner.
 That is controlling.
 How dare you set my reality calling me fearsome and brave.
 I am none of those things.
 Okay, and then also not so brave or fearsome.
 Right now, there it is.
 That's accurate.
 Okay, I'm so sorry.
 I'm equally controlled and manipulated in this moment.
 My reality is what's going to go.
 I'm just going to jump right into victim mentality right here.
 Let me just...
 Well, folks, we've got something really fun lined up for you today.
 It's another one of our three rules episode.
 And what we're talking about today on the show is leadership limitations, leaders who limit
 themselves, leaders who must feel in control.
 And as we dig into this, me and my caveats, I've always got a caveat in here.
 That's what you can still be very controlling and not qualify as a control freak.
 If you must feel in control.
 So we're going to dig into that kind of stuff.
 Leaders who struggle to trust others, which I think is 99% of leaders on the planet.
 And the impact that all of this has on their teams.
 Now John Maxwell has said this a bajillion times.
 Everything rises and falls on leadership and we believe that that is absolutely true.
 And Paul and Paul has said, leadership is solving problems.
 The day soldiers stop bringing you their problems, think about that later.
 The day soldiers stop bringing you the problems is the day you have stopped leading them.
 That is so stinking powerful.
 You know, quite often we talk about, you know, if you believe that you're a leader, so many
 people want the title of leader.
 They want the, you know, they want to be able to say that they are a leader and one thing we
 say is listen, if you really, really, really want to know if you're leading people turn around.
 If nobody's following you, then by definition, you're not leading.
 So I love what Colin Powell says.
 If they're not bringing their stuff to you, if they're not bringing their problems to you,
 if they're not seeking wisdom from you, guess what, you're no longer leading them.
 So with all of that writing on the shoulders of leaders, it's no wonder that some of them
 tend to panic or be paranoid or having anxiety or get defensive or get controlling or stress
 over the small things, right?
 Behind it all, what are we talking about?
 We're talking about an important and painful word, ego.
 The ego of the leader makes or breaks them.
 The ego is a person's sense of self-esteem or self-importance.
 And you've heard me say it before I can care less about yourself, a stigma care about yourself
 worth and your self respect.
 However, when ego's involved, self-esteem and self-importance are really important to a person,
 right?
 It manifests in how they carry themselves and how they see themselves and how they think others
 see them or how much they focus on how others see them.
 And value have a lot to do with this.
 And of course, their root system comes into play.
 We know that.
 But ego issues tend to trap leaders or people in general inside of their own little world.
 Some characteristics of a person who can't get out of their own heads and think objectively
 is control, obsession, distress, anger, frustration.
 And so today, maybe we're talking to someone who might find themselves here a little bit too
 often.
 So here's what I want you to know.
 If you're relating to a great fantastic, we're going to dig in.
 But some of you might be hearing this going, "Oh, I know who that person is and not recognizing
 it very well could be you."
 Either way, we're going to dig into all of this.
 Now, Cambridge Dictionary says that a control freak is someone determined to make things happen
 and exactly the way they want and who tries to make other people do what they want to.
 So my question is, do we see control freaks in the modern workplace and what does that look
 like?
 With that, let me bring on the fearsome, the brave, the victim to my control, welcome Joe Ford
 or jump it on that question right there.
 Hey, what's the question?
 What's the question?
 See control freaks in our workplace right now in our modern workplace today?
 No, none, none at all.
 Yeah, we do because people struggle with control and we bring it to work with us.
 So speaking to leaders here, the leaders often are high achievers.
 We get stuff done.
 We often are people that can do more achieved to more, find success, just grind it out,
 work hard, put ourselves in uncomfortable situations and grow.
 And then we can have these expectations and other people are supposed to do the exact same thing
 and think the same way that we are.
 And then we get very outcome focused.
 And then it becomes, that's where the control freak comes in.
 It's like I'm so outcome focused and it's, I don't even recognize that I'm doing that.
 I was just coaching someone this week and part of a thing we were walking through was,
 hey, recognize is animalized what you're doing and the conversations you're having with
 this team member and focus on what outcome am I desiring right now?
 Because oftentimes we just operate.
 We react, we're emotional and we go with stuff.
 And then we become that control freak that people say, oh, my leaders are control freak and
 they're on me all the time.
 And because you're just operating without really operating with the perspective of way to
 second, what am I doing?
 And what outcome am I so attached to that I can't give it up?
 And that's where the, you have to do it my way.
 You can't delegate well because no one can do it as well as I can.
 That's where all that kind of thinking creeps in and just sabotages you.
 Yeah, I think a very important thing to recognize is the level of control.
 Now we cannot say it enough.
 We've set it up a billion times on the show.
 Control is an illusion.
 I can't control you.
 I can't make you think someone and I can't make you feel some way.
 I just can't do it.
 It's impossible to do so, right?
 However, well with that also is the belief that I can do it.
 And when I feel out of control, it's the very thing I'm going to try to do.
 I'm going to try and make you feel, I'm going to, well, we tell people, since you can't
 make somebody do it, the only thing you can do is highly suggest it to them.
 You know, Joel, man, that is one ugly shirt that you're wearing today.
 That's been a serious thing.
 Right, exactly.
 I mean, that is just horrible, right?
 No, Joel's like a big thing.
 It's a good thing that I'm fierce and brave.
 Right.
 You know, if I say that, it doesn't mean that the shirt is ugly.
 It just means that I suggest that you feel, because first off, if it was just my opinion,
 I don't even need to share.
 But if I want you to feel a specific way that I need to suggest to you that you have a problem,
 it is not a problem until you receive it.
 And so things that are important to know is we talk through control, because what I don't
 want is I don't want people taking on victim mentality.
 All right, I know I have that person in my life and yeah, I'm a victim to that person.
 No, you're not.
 You don't have the reality I set until you receive the reality I set.
 So important things to understand.
 But is all control bad?
 And Brian, again, I don't know what you're going to hit us with.
 So maybe I'm hitting stuff.
 I had a time.
 I don't know, is all control bad?
 No.
 I can tell you as somebody who is a risk taker.
 And I have a team full of risk takers.
 As people who like to take risks and who understand that failure is not only inevitable,
 but failures are great teacher for you to be.
 We're the kind of people that get ourselves out of control.
 We have a ability to manage a certain level of not feeling in control.
 Right?
 It's that risk factor.
 I know that I can handle so much of being out of control.
 But what I have come to understand over time is that my level stops at a certain point.
 I can have 43 things going on and be perfectly okay, not stressed out, not struggling.
 But if I get to 48, crud, I'm struggling now.
 Now I feel out of control.
 Now I feel like I have to control some situations to get back in control.
 So is all control bad?
 No, it's not.
 But that's not what we're talking about today.
 So I want to make that abundantly clear with everybody listening.
 What we're talking about is what Joel just said.
 The person who feels out of control has to control a person has to control a situation.
 Isn't handling things well?
 Isn't delegating properly?
 Isn't looking to the outcome?
 But instead looking at how they feel.
 So with that, let me turn it over to the,
 however you feel about yourself, Brian, whether you're fearsome and brave or not.
 Brian Alex.
 So yeah, let's get into some practical side of this.
 We've been setting up a little bit of the context.
 And I had this quote, I think I'm going to reframe it a little bit in light of what you just said.
 The quote is, you can control or you can lead, but you can't do both.
 And you know, in that feeling, that sense of control, there's certain things that you can control.
 You know, we've talked about this a million times before.
 I control what I think, what I think about how often I think it, I control my reaction
 to things.
 I control things inside of me.
 I can feel out of control because circumstances of run a muck and all of that.
 But in light of what we're talking about today, what is your emphasis?
 What's your focus?
 What's your frame of mind here?
 A Forbes article that had this way to put it, do you believe that being in charge means you are in control?
 Reminds me of that show, Charles, in charge.
 Years ago.
 Yeah.
 And if you find yourself frustrated about losing power in situations, it's because the leadership
 is not about taking control, it's about influence.
 So if we're to go down, let's just get into some of the rules here.
 And you know, for those of you joining us who haven't been on one of our three rules episodes
 before what we try to do is throw out some rules.
 And either agree, disagree, come up with a different way that we would frame that.
 And in so doing, we give a little bit of the behind the scenes and into the ideation, the thought
 process.
 And hopefully you come away with some better perspective.
 Well, as it would happen, rule number one, gain some perspective.
 So again, we're talking about the person who frequently feels out of control, feels
 like they need to be in control.
 And this hits a panic kind of response.
 So if you have a tendency to want to control, you have to realize that your vision may be impaired
 because of that very fact.
 One writer puts it this way in his book, ego is the enemy.
 ego gives us wicked or in that word means twisted or distorted feedback that's disconnected
 from reality.
 So is that true or false?
 So our leaders who are after that controlled disconnected from reality around them.
 Well, oftentimes they are, unfortunately, because I mean, this stuff becomes so emotional.
 I mean, we are really scratching the surface of a topic that runs so deep all the way
 back into people's childhoods, all the way deep into their root systems to where it's
 hard to operate with perspective of, oh, I am out of control right now or gosh, I am focused
 on controlling outcomes right now.
 A lot of people recognize also that they're controlling and that they can be controlling
 leaders that there's often, I talk to many people that recognize that they have a control
 struggle, but they don't know what to do about it because they don't understand it and
 they don't understand the why and they feel like they've always been this way and they feel
 like if they don't stay in control, they feel unsafe.
 They feel insecure or things aren't going to happen or the businesses aren't going to go and
 it's really heartbreaking when you get into it and like I can personally relate to this because
 this is part of my story of the family of control and control struggles and I come by it
 honestly and I've had to learn half perspective, half people like a Chris deck and that can
 lead me in very painful tough conversations to show me, hey see this and then it's a, oh,
 and I'm the kind of person that sees like, oh, that's so bad and I'll tend to flip a switch
 and be like, y'all, you just can't be like that and then it's a, okay, change.
 That everyone's like that. I can do that. A lot of people can't do that. That's not the point.
 The point is, yeah, it's going after this kind of perspective, but this goes beyond perspective.
 I mean, this goes to a level of healing that some of us need to go on to really overcome
 these control challenges that cause us to show up at work or at home if we, you know,
 broaden that definition of leadership to anyone you're influencing your leading.
 This is the really tough challenging stuff that causes us to show up is that is that quote
 unquote control freak leader. Yeah, one of the things that we say is when you are selfish
 and self-centered, you can't possibly gain quality perspective. It's impossible. Now, why
 is that? First off, we have to recognize that perspective just means point of view, right?
 But for us, the reason why quality perspective is so important is because we're gaining as much
 perspective as we possibly can on a subject, on a thing, right? If we can gain as much quality
 perspective, different points of view, all the information that we can or have the ability
 to gain in a certain time, then we can make a much better decision. When you are self-centered,
 when you are having to be in control, when you are freaked out, panicked, paranoid, then you
 can't possibly gain quality perspective because you can't see outside of yourself. And
 instead of being quality perspective, something almost to the opposite happens, which is,
 you start setting harsh realities. When you are a control freak, when you are struggling
 with you, with worth loss, with something that's happening that's just beyond your control or out
 of your control, so on and so forth. Whatever it is, then what tends to happen is you tend to
 become control-ing and a big part of that is now setting a reality. So think about it. Now what
 we say, now, this is really our term that we use setting a reality. If I say, Brian,
 you're wearing headphones, I'm not setting your reality. The reality is, you're wearing headphones.
 But if I say, Brian, you're wearing a ball cap, well, I've now set a reality that's not true
 because you're not. So that's what we're kind of talking about. If I set your reality,
 it's the opposite of reality. It's not truth, right? I'm saying this exists when it doesn't
 actually exist. Well, control freaks are masters of setting reality because it's part of what gets them
 back into control. So the concept of a great leader being able to gain perspective, it's vital.
 I mean, my gosh, it's one of the top things that we push our clients is, hey, you've got to be somebody
 who's constantly getting perspective. But if you're a control freak, that man, that's just,
 it not only is it impossible, you're actually going to do the exact opposite and you're going to set
 a whole lot of reality that doesn't exist. Yeah, it's got to be such a tough thing. You know, it can
 feel lonely at the top if you're the leader. And if you don't have a peer group, if you don't have a master
 mind group, if you don't have a community to reach into somebody that trustworthy that can give you quality
 perspective and not just, you know, a shoulder to cry or somebody complained to, but can actually
 speak in in a healthy way to your situation, you might never find your way out of that rut that you're
 in with that controlling behavior. That's so important to get that kind of quality perspective like you're
 saying. Yeah, let me kind of jump on that because man, an important part of this is you wanting to
 desiring the change. A person who cannot change is never going to put an accountability group in their
 life is never going to put a quality coach in their life. They're just not going to do it. It's like
 an alcoholic, right? It's amazing. I've known plenty of folks that I've helped through all kinds of addictions,
 but one thing that you always hear, especially if somebody has to go through like rehab or something like
 that, one of the things they will say is all you do is count the days until you're out. You could make
 it that number of days, not know what it is, 28, 40 days, whatever it is, you know, you can make it that
 number of days, then you get to go back to drinking. That mindset is one of, I don't want to change even though
 I've gone through the pain of change. It doesn't matter. I'm waiting. So a person who can recognize it
 and can say, I don't want to be like this anymore. I don't want this to be my life. I don't want to be the
 person who always feels out of control. If that person's ready for change, oh my gosh, surrounding
 themselves with an accountability group, a great coach, great mentor, is one of the most powerful things
 because then they really put things in place. We are blessed to see folks come to us, especially in
 next level, right? But we see it in our coaching programs, but we're blessed to see people coming and go,
 I'm aware of the what helped me to get to the why and help me to change this stuff. And that's super
 powerful. No, that's that's really good. I imagine that some of what we're going to talk about today,
 what we're talking about already is counterintuitive to the person who is that control freak.
 They're going to feel like I don't need any new perspective and I don't need whatever else you've
 got to say. That's the irony here. All right, moving on to rule number two, this is something that we
 talk about around here a lot. I'm making it about me or about them. And remember where we're going here,
 you can choose to be in control and to control everything or you can choose to lead. However,
 you will find that you cannot do both of those things successfully. You can either be an inspiring
 leader or a control freak. The controller ultimately causes more delay. And I think that's what
 some people need to hear. I know especially for me. If I'm the cause that something's not being
 executed on because I'm micromanaging or I'm a control freak and I'm trying to control even the
 outcomes and people just become a part of the means to get the end that I want the outcome that I want.
 I'm causing that delay and I'm distracting the whole process here because of my inability to release
 the grip. And so getting out of your own head means putting yourself in other people's shoes.
 How do we say how do we think about that? Yeah, I agree. And I want to hit it with a test for
 everybody out there. I'm somebody in my younger years control was important because I was a people
 pleaser. Now I was never a control freak or control in person but I was a people pleaser so I didn't
 want situations to get out of control. One of the things I learned early on, I mean like 21 years old,
 something like that is how much if I was in the way, how much energy and time and resources got lost
 before somebody else could one run with it and then I could focus on something else.
 So hopefully make that make sense. So here's the test that I want people to look at. If you're a leader,
 your job is to inspire people to something that they wouldn't normally do on their own.
 Your job is to guide them to a destination where they wouldn't normally get to.
 Are they getting to the destination that you're expecting or are you so involved that it's
 slowing down the process like crazy? So here's what you need to do. If you're struggling with control,
 if you're struggling with the inability to properly delegate as we say and killing the leadership
 crazy cycle, if you're struggling with being able to lead people to run something by themselves or you
 can move on to something else, then what you're going to find is a lot of your time is stuck in the process.
 Measure that. How much time do you spend struggling with the control, struggling with not giving
 enough information, struggling with not helping somebody to become better at this than you are,
 struggling with delegating in a proper way, struggling with having to take things back,
 struggling through any of that, whatever it is, whatever level of control you're struggling with,
 setting people's reality so that you feel better about yourself. Measure the amount of time,
 energy and resources that you selfishly are injecting into this process and what you will discover is,
 either you're doing a great job leading people or oh my gosh, not only are you the bottleneck,
 but you're also destroying resource by being so personally involved. Does all that make sense?
 Yes, that does make sense. It makes total sense. You hit early on Chris in this episode.
 You mentioned the word selfishness and that's the rule we're talking about. So first of all,
 it's like, "Yeah, I agree with the rule because this, when we're stuck on control,
 we are focused on ourselves." So I'm spending a lot of time focusing on meetings right now, not only
 not just because I'm a leader, but because our upcoming mastermind retreat, we're going to spend a
 lot of time on productive meetings and because we're so much involved in quality-productive meetings
 and I'm really just spending a lot of time and immersing myself in all of all things meetings right now.
 You know, an interesting that how much of a how at times a meeting can just be a powder keg that when you get
 people together and you get a control freak leader or control freak people in the room and around the
 table or under remote team, all on Zoom, how quickly the communication can get out of hand.
 Because no one's gaining perspective, it's all about me. I'm frustrated with you. I don't like what you said.
 I know what you're implying. I assume bad intent about both of you. I feel attacked. It's got to be my way
 and then our meetings are, they're toxic is what they become. They just become toxic and nobody wants to be
 there. And so we're now missing out on all the opportunity that we can have. And it's the ability
 for some people to self-contmanage themselves and practice self-control in meetings is so
 incredibly important and a lot of us and a lot of people lack that ability that when they gather,
 it is just, it's so toxic, it's so bad. Why? Because it's a bunch of control freaks in a meeting
 that are all self-focused on ourselves and what can we not do? We can't communicate well. So we can't
 drive things forward. We can't move the business forward because there's too much of this showing up.
 This is one of the things that strikes me or a check me years ago about like our coaching programs
 and wanting to help leaders out and wanting them to go on to be better leaders and grow their businesses
 and make all of that amazing and healthy and all that is that the leadership journey is a personal
 growth journey really above all things. That's what we're talking about today that if we can't
 get a handle on ourselves and our own emotions and our own triggers and learn, wow, I'm struggling
 personally, this isn't a work thing, this is a meeting that if we can't get to that place,
 we're only going to go so far in our leadership growth. It's got to become a meeting, not in a
 selfish way, but in a humble sense of, I'm not perfect, that's okay, but may not, you can just
 gotta find ways to do better here. Yeah, absolutely. Think you're tracking with what we're, the whole
 direction of this episode is just really weaving this theme together and the thing that comes to my mind
 is how many leaders are self-sabotaging in this area because they're refusing to see those signs,
 whether, like we talked about on the first one gaining some perspective, I don't need perspective.
 Is it about me or them? Well, I don't need to think about that. I'm looking at the outcomes and then
 rule number three here is am I taking responsibility, but I can just feel, this is probably where my
 mind would go is, well, of course, I'm taking responsibility. I'm trying to get all these things done.
 I've got all these tasks. I'm in this crazy cycle. No, no, no, no, that's not what we're talking about.
 Taking responsibility for yourself, your leadership, that ego, keeping that in check.
 An objective leader focuses on their leadership, not just the outcomes. And so it's so easy to
 lose that objectivity when people become just a means to an end. And this reminded me of something
 a critic of Napoleon said this. And Napoleon's kind of that central historical figure that we look
 back on, he was short and you know, just full of himself and couldn't see beyond himself. And this is
 this is something that comes out a critic of Napoleon remarked that he Napoleon despises the nation
 who's applause he seeks. He couldn't help but see the French people as pieces to be manipulated.
 People he had to be better than people who, unless they were totally unconditionally supportive
 of him, were against him. Gosh, taking responsibility, not for the outcomes necessarily, but for our
 leadership of the people who have trusted themselves to us. That's a huge part of this whole equation
 that we're building today. Yeah, I a word that we don't use a lot here and we should, but sometimes
 people just don't see it through a logical lens. And that's the term narcissism, right? When you take a
 look at what we're talking about today, I love I heard somebody say a while back that a definition
 for narcissism is being so self-centered that it affects others in a negative way, that it to the
 detriment of other people and essentially, you know, that that's what narcissism is. And when you look at
 what you just described about Napoleon, what was Napoleon's focus, that he is so self-serving
 in this process that he will even manipulate those to get his own gain, right? Well, that is almost
 almost, not completely, but almost the essence of a control freak, right? Somebody that must
 control something or a person or a situation so much for their own personal gain, whether it be an
 outcome, whether it be worth, whether it be some emotional fulfillment that they're looking for.
 So I think it's vitally important for us to understand that, you know, if we can see how detrimental
 this is to be so self-serving, if we can understand that being a control freak is 100% about us,
 a completely agree with what you just said, I totally will convince myself that I'm taking
 responsibility by being a control freak. That doesn't mean that I'm being responsible,
 right? It means that I'm taking responsibility for my actions, for my emotions, you know, my feelings,
 the outcome that I desire. So when you say that, that's all I see in a control freak is,
 this thing has to end the way I want it to be and by gosh, that's me taking responsibility.
 No, that is you being self-serving, that is you being so self-centered and self-focused, that it
 most likely is going to be the detriment to the detriment of other people. And so it can be again another illusion.
 I'm taking responsibility. So what I convince myself, it's the lie I tell myself instead of
 recognizing, I'm self-sabotaging me and I'm sabotaging others in my wake.
 Yeah, I think the thing I would add and to this rule of which I agree with is the is the fear side
 and how much control and being a control freak can be driven by fear that if you dig under, why are you that way?
 And why do I do that? And why is that my habit? Why do I always do that? And oftentimes when you,
 it's a fear that that's not going to happen. Success is going to happen.
 Net profit isn't going to be there. We're not going to sell that thing. Then I'm going to get
 in trouble with my boss. My kids aren't going to be successful and I'm worried about their future or
 the team isn't going to be able to pull it off because we've struggled in the past and all of that
 is fear that drives you to become a controlling leader and then people just love that, right?
 Everybody just loves having controlling people in their life. But what they often don't see is,
 oh, you're just afraid. That's the actual of the deeper issue. But then we get, you know,
 but this is where we have to get to these levels of perspective and self-awareness to start overcoming
 what's for some people seems hopeless. It's like, Joel, I've always been this way. I don't know how to
 change. I'm so quickly triggered and then I react and it's like, I don't know what to do and it's like,
 it can, you can do better. We can get over these things. We can improve and these habitual or strong
 holds that we have where you feel like you've read all these different books or you've been,
 when you're really being more vulnerable and control-free, it's going to really struggle with that
 because they've got to protect themselves personally. You've read books and you've talked to your
 pastor, you've talked to a friend or you've practiced being vulnerable, but things aren't seeming to work for
 you. And this is why there's, you may need a deeper level of help. You may need something like
 next up a life level inside or you may need a counselor at therapist or you may need beyond what you
 what you've ventured into at this point. And it's just a, it's, I think to something you said
 earlier, Chris, that's something it was in this episode, is you've got to be willing to change and you've
 got to be able to get to a place where you can look at yourself and see, yeah, things are not right about
 me. There's things that are like, yeah, that's not right. That's toxic or I read, I read about this
 definition of narcissism and I like, gosh, you know, I saw myself. It's like, I don't like that
 praise God because that is the beginning of doing something to change it. And man, I want everybody out there
 to hear we all struggle with control. This is something that every human being struggles with,
 every human being struggles with the level of victim mentality. It just depends on how much it is.
 Here's the thing I don't want you to hear as we're walking through this and explaining this. I don't
 want you to hear judgment. Oh, you're a horrible person. Here's what I do want you to hear. Unhealthy people
 will always judge the living crap out of you. They will always point fingers because they don't want
 the focus to be on them. Healthy people will help you overcome it. Surround yourself. If this is
 something you're struggling with, do not be afraid, do not be embarrassed, suck all that up and go,
 you know what? I need to get some healthy people in my life and I need to solve this.
 Healthy people will help you overcome it. That's the key. So if you're somebody out there who's
 pointing a finger right now, just remember, you could probably point the finger at yourself. Right?
 Our goal isn't to judge the crap out of people. Our goal here is to get great quality perspective and
 understand it. And then how do we come alongside this person, especially if I are the person,
 you know, what if it's me who's the person? How do we come around these folks and help them to get to
 some level of solving this? Right. That's good. So to kind of sum up our thoughts here and wrap this up,
 I mentioned a Forbes article at the beginning. Here's another little snippet from it. The best
 leaders know that their role is not to dictate but to inspire and motivate others to act.
 And here's here's the invitation. So if this has been a sermon, here's the altar call. Here's the invitation.
 Here it is. When you surrender control, you invite people to discover their potential.
 You create a culture where your team looks to go above and beyond not just to do the minimum
 to meet your demand. What will you do? What will you create? You will draw out a culture of
 communication that fosters and encourages innovation. And so here's a recap of what we've said today.
 You've got to gain perspective. Let's say especially if you think you don't need it.
 Because you may be self sabotaging. You need to ask yourself, is this about me or is it about them?
 Am I leading? And you've got to take responsibility of yourself, of your actions, of that ego that
 each one of us is wrestling with. And so we've got to begin practicing, seeing ourselves with a little bit of
 distance, some humility, some self-awareness and diligence, just like we've said. And I think that's a
 great way to frame all of this and give us something that we can actually put into practice today.
 Amen. Well folks, hopefully this has not infuriated you.
 Hopefully. But if so, you may be so.
 You may be. Maybe we did Jeff Foxworthy on right now. Hopefully you're hearing the purpose of this
 is to understand what does it look like. If you're relating to any of this personally,
 great fantastic, let's dig in further. Let's discover more about it. Let's find out how to solve it
 because believe it or not, it can be solved. There are a lot of folks who come through next
 level of life struggling with being a control freak and are able to make massive changes because
 here's a big piece that we didn't touch on today. So much of being a control freak is trained.
 It's something you've been trained to do. You've just got to discover why.
 Why does that exist in the first place? And when you do, you get to make different decisions.
 So if you've related to so much of this, personally, then I want you to know, you can get rid of this.
 You can, it doesn't mean that you're not going to have the waves of feeling the need to control,
 but you can have tools to actually solve the problem. If you are somebody who is like,
 "Man, I don't know if this is me or not, but I just know that there are aspects of my life
 that are out of control. Get help anyways." Right? "Lose the fear, lose the embarrassment,
 lose any of that crap. Don't put yourself in the way of people who are going to judge the
 daylights out of you, put yourself in the way side by side with people who want to help you and
 get you to overcome this kind of stuff." So that is all the time we have with our fearsome and brave
 on the days they want to be. "Oh, that's scary." "Oh, I know, I know, I just, I just, I just, I just
 know that day is not this day." That is not this day. Thank you guys for joining me for another
 amazing episode. Look forward to seeing you guys on the next one. Everybody else, take this information,
 change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]