 On today's episode, relationships, everything to gain and everything to lose, maintaining
 healthy relationships is easier said than done.
 So what does it look like to win?
 The truth is, intentionality.
 That is coming up next.
 So let's go to the Crystal Acredo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover
 that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today we're talking about relationships and relationships are probably the greatest
 resource that you and I will ever manage.
 Yes, we're going to talk about managing relationships today, people and your relationship
 with them are more valuable than money.
 Let me say that again, people and your relationships with them are way more valuable than
 money.
 Now all of my 100% high seas out there are going, I don't know if I agree with that.
 High sea can deal with people, can be happy with people and sometimes not need people.
 So it don't be offended high eyes.
 The high seas are actually okay with that.
 So here's the funny thing.
 We don't tend to look at managing a relationship with people, but we do.
 It's valuable.
 It's even more valuable than your money.
 I don't know if I'd say it's more valuable than your time, but it's pretty important to your
 time.
 Healthy relationships are fundamental to living a fulfilled life.
 God created us to be communal.
 The problem is that we tend to take a passive approach when it comes to our relationships.
 So let's start with the first point, what really matters.
 Now facing death and reflecting on their lives, people on their deathbeds rarely ever say
 anything like, you know, I wish I had that new.
 It would be MW.
 Oh, you know, I wish I made more money.
 You know, I wish I had worked more than I did.
 I wish I had spent more time with the office.
 I wish I had done everything I wanted to do.
 Nope.
 What do people actually say on their deathbeds?
 Well, you might find this very interesting.
 A nurse revealed that she had found the top five answers that people expressed just before
 their death to be.
 Number one, I wish I'd had the courage to live a life true to myself.
 In other words, you know, not the life that others expected of them.
 Hello, hi, S.S.
 Woo.
 Right.
 Number two, I wish I hadn't worked so hard.
 You know, they'd missed their children's games or events or first steps or whatever, or maybe
 missed their their spouses, you know, companionship or time together or vacations.
 Number three, I wish I had the courage to express my feelings.
 Many people believe or not suppress their feelings in order to keep peace with others.
 And I'm not saying you need to go out there and express all your feelings.
 All right.
 But it's interesting that the number three thing is, is that people had not expressed their
 feelings.
 And tell you, I can look back at many times in my life.
 And I used to, I don't regret them now.
 But there are times in my life, I regretted telling that girl, you know, that I liked her.
 You know, asking her out on a date or I regretted asking for help on something or or or, right?
 I'm sure we can all go back and think through that praise God, that's something that, you know,
 I've worked on a lot over the decades.
 And that's not something I regret.
 I don't regret not expressing my feelings.
 But there are folks who go to their death bed, regretting that they have not expressed certain
 things.
 So number four, I wish I had stayed in touch with my friends who there are many, many,
 many, deeper grits about not giving friendships the time and effort that they deserved.
 And maybe not even just deserved.
 But what you wanted out of it, you would have traded the amount of time that you spent making money
 to spend more time with friends.
 Number five, I wish I had let myself be happier.
 Oh, many people didn't realize until the end that happiness is a choice.
 I wish I had let myself be happier.
 Folks fear of change had them pretending to others and to themselves that they were content.
 And the truth is happiness is a choice.
 You can be happy no matter what your situation is.
 You can be happy right now.
 You just gotta learn to choose it.
 So what's the point of all of this, right?
 Well, look at how many of these statements deal with relationships.
 All of them for better force, relationships come to play with every area of our lives, every area
 of our lives that really matter.
 And in each of these cases, we could argue that a lack of intentionality was a major factor.
 Think about it.
 If I intentionally focused on my happiness, would I be happy?
 If I understood that happiness is a choice and I was intentional about choosing happiness, could
 I be happy?
 Of course.
 If I wanted to spend more time with friends and I was intentional about it, would I do it?
 Absolutely.
 And so on and so forth.
 Folks, relationships matter.
 Relationships matter.
 Number two point, the toxic relationships.
 What does it look like to be intentional with the toxic or negative relationships in your life?
 There is a downside to relationships when we're not actively and intentionally examining them,
 think about that for a second.
 The people in your life can be incredible assets to your quality of life, to your trajectory
 of life, even to your destiny.
 However, they can also be liabilities.
 And I think so many folks put too much emphasis on the importance of relationship even if
 it's toxic.
 And I will tell you, when you take a look at how Yeshua walked the earth, when he came across
 toxic people, what did he tend to do?
 He tended to try and help.
 And when they decided they just wanted to be toxic, he moved on to the next person.
 It's in there.
 Go ahead and look it up.
 Here's a deal.
 Toxic relationships can trip you up.
 Like an algebraic, they can keep you from going to the next level in your life.
 They can keep you from going to the next level in your relationships.
 They can keep you from going to the next level in your happiness.
 Your finances, everything, right?
 Now while you can't change your family members, you can at least establish healthy boundaries.
 And I can tell you that it is vitally important.
 Well, let me tell you two things.
 The first thing is for all of you out there who are believers, do yourself a favor and recognize
 that God has never changed or taken away his commandments.
 He still wants you to follow them.
 Yes, he does.
 One very important one in there is honoring your parents.
 So the way that I like to help people to recognize that is to not dishonor your parents.
 What does it look like to take care of your parents and honor them?
 It does not mean that if your parents are toxic, if your parents are abusive, if your parents
 are manipulative, that you will allow it.
 It does not mean that you cannot have healthy boundaries in place.
 So honor your parents, recognize that, right?
 Do what's needed.
 Make sure that God is on your side with how you take care of your parents.
 But that in no way shape or form means that you don't have healthy boundaries.
 It just means how you instill those boundaries might look different than the way you would
 put boundaries in place with a sibling, a neighbor, a friend, a coworker, right?
 Now, try to honor everybody.
 But if you've got an abusive toxic person in your life, you might have to put seriously
 hard boundaries in place.
 If it happens to be a parent, just trying not to dishonor them in the process, do the best
 that you possibly can.
 Again, it does not in any way shape or form.
 Meaning that you justify their actions or allow them to be toxic to you.
 Hopefully that is clear.
 On the other hand, when it comes to friends and other people, you can change them.
 Some of you might need to.
 Right?
 Here's the point.
 Nothing is as fulfilling and beneficial as being in a healthy, growing relationship.
 Nothing is more detrimental on the other hand and exhausting and painful as a toxic one.
 God, it is so tiring being in toxic relationships.
 So being intentional with your relationships means at least three things.
 Number one, it involves being aware of how your actions impact those around you.
 And they're the hand, I've got a lot of, I'm Teviah today, if you've seen filler on the other
 hand, it means understanding how they are affecting you.
 Right?
 Super important.
 Number two, it's a call to be more purposeful, thoughtful and careful about how you interact
 and connect with others.
 You are influencing others all the time.
 Even if you don't think so, you are.
 Number three thing that being intentional with your relationship means learning to limit
 at times, or perhaps even increase at other times, your interaction with people, healthy
 relationships are worth investing in.
 So for those of you that are like, I just don't want to spend time.
 You get a lot of seeds don't want to spend time, you know, and by the way, seeds, you don't
 have to have 25 friends like the high I want.
 Okay?
 It's okay for the high I, that's their energy.
 It is perfectly fine for you to have one, two, three, but you got to have relationships
 where meant to be communal, right?
 So you don't have to go out there and be the partner, you know, but you have to understand
 you need relationships.
 A bunch of panors, business owners, you've got to come to a place of understanding, you need
 relationships.
 You can't just work 24 hours a day and then go home and sit on your keyster.
 You've got to have healthy relationships as well and believe me it's worth investing in.
 So what do you do when you find that a relationship is having a negative impact on you?
 How do you limit that?
 What do you do about it?
 How do you change that?
 Now I'm not advocating that you go into your Rolex for those of you who remember what that
 is.
 And throughout all of your friends who are dead weight, I'm saying that you need to intentionally
 and honestly assess where relationships are having a negative effect on your life.
 Where there's a deficit.
 Are they a liability?
 And you need to honestly and intentionally limit there with draw, place healthy boundaries and
 determine how much or even if you should continue your connection with them.
 Are you hearing what I'm saying?
 For those of you that feel like breaking up a relationship just means you're horrible and unworthy
 and not good enough, toxic relationships may have to go.
 And in many situations they need to go.
 I will tell you I don't have toxic people in my inner circles.
 Yes, I have circles of relationships.
 I have my most inner circle of relationship which is the people I trust the most and the people
 that are really putting God before anything else and are focused on following his ways.
 Those are the people who get closest to me.
 Outside of that, it's not a whole lot less than that, but it continues to each circle outside
 is a little bit less, a little bit less.
 Do I know toxic people?
 Do I have relationships with toxic people?
 Totally.
 Absolutely.
 They're just not great relationships.
 They are not close to me.
 They are not influencing me.
 Hopefully I'm influencing them if it's possible to try and become less toxic.
 But I definitely have healthy boundaries in place with toxic people.
 Why?
 Because I spent way too much of my life with toxic people having influences on me.
 And when you get tired of it, you make the right decisions.
 Now with that being said, I do have to share a buddy of my Lance Osborne.
 I loved it years ago.
 I got a text from him and he had deleted everybody out of his phone book.
 His phone book, the out of which I call it, I just book on his phone.
 He said he would throw his phone and anybody that he couldn't, if he landed in jail and he
 couldn't call that person to bail him out, he deleted him.
 And I just thought, no, of course, my guy Lance is not going to do stuff to land in
 self-in jail.
 But I loved his thought process.
 If you're not that close to me that I can call you up when I'm in trouble, why are you in
 my phone book?
 Right?
 Now, I'm using that example to ask you a serious question.
 If the person in your life is not willing to support you and help you and not hurt you intentionally
 and not manipulate you and not control you, not treat you like crap, but not be toxic in
 your life, why are you in a relationship with them or at very least?
 What is the relationship you have with them?
 Like I said, there's toxic people in my life.
 The relationship just isn't close.
 It's distant, right?
 I see them from time to time.
 I try to help them out from time to time, but they're not in my inner circles.
 So important things for you to think about.
 Why?
 Because at the end of the day, you are responsible for your relationships.
 Good or bad.
 Frank Sonnaberg said, keeping bad companies like being in a germ-in-fested area, you never know
 what you'll catch.
 That's just nasty.
 So what are some earmarks that the relationship is toxic?
 Check out these characteristics.
 One, they rarely apologize for their mistakes and they try to make you feel guilty instead
 of taking responsibility of their own mistakes.
 Two, they want you to make them a top priority, but they don't do the same for you.
 Number three, they keep bringing up your past mistakes and failures and judge you for them.
 Number four, you can't do anything right in their opinion and it's difficult to communicate
 with them.
 Number five, they make everything about them while ignoring your expressed thoughts or feelings.
 And I'm a throw another one in there.
 All of their problems somehow become your responsibility to solve.
 So somebody once said toxic relationships are like a good post of that has been overcooked.
 And for those of us to say, "You don't need it, you just throw it out."
 Once it's been overcooked, it is a colossal waste of time.
 It's pointless.
 Get rid of it.
 Move on to something healthy.
 Not saying that all positive is just their healthy.
 Very few are.
 Point number three, let's talk about the healthy ones.
 Are you intentionally in healthy relationships?
 How are you actively investing in healthy relationships?
 Are you actively investing in healthy relationships?
 Are they positively influencing you?
 Are they positively influencing others?
 What do those look like?
 If you're married, are you adequately contributing to your partner's health and success?
 What are you doing to be healthy to your spouse?
 What are you doing to aid in their health and their success?
 What are you doing to cherish them and help them to feel cherished and to know your love and
 to feel healthy?
 What about if you're a parent?
 How are you investing in your children?
 Are you influencing them and training them to be successful and by success?
 I do not mean working 70 hours a week to try and make money so that their worth is tied to money.
 That is not what I'm talking about.
 For me, I'm always going to say success in the eyes of God.
 What is a child's success look like in the eyes of God?
 Completely sold out for God.
 Learning that He is our ultimate father and that He owns everything and He is life and that
 we are to obey Him and that we are to be concerned about His opinions of us, not those of other
 people around us, right?
 So are you investing in your children's success?
 If you're a business owner or a leader, is there somebody around you that you can positively
 influence or actively invest in even if it has little to know return to you personally?
 Do you care to develop people in that kind of a way, right?
 So here's the point, healthy relationships don't just happen.
 There's always something intentional and purposeful behind them.
 People must consistently communicate well and have a similar commitment to the relationship.
 Let me repeat that, people must consistently communicate well and have a similar commitment
 to the relationship.
 In relationships like these, with those traits, here's what happens.
 You respect each other's opinions and points of view even when you disagree with them.
 And you're mindful of the other person's communication, they're content, they're style
 and Jew reciprocate.
 So here's a deal, intentionality, no more casual, haphazard relationships that bring you
 nothing but complication and chaos.
 Folks, it's time.
 It is time to do something about it.
 You who know what I'm talking about, you get it.
 You need to be done for those of you, if you're sitting out there going, man, I just don't have
 any of those.
 Maybe you don't.
 But I bet you you've got people around you who do.
 And if you're saying, I don't have those, maybe you're the toxic one.
 Maybe you're the complicated one.
 Maybe not.
 Are you being intentional?
 By being intentional, we inevitably deepen the relationship.
 We inevitably establish and or build trust.
 We enhance the communication.
 And we have more meaningful connections.
 Is that happening in your relationships, if not, then why not?
 Where are the deficits and the liabilities?
 Where in your relationships are the healthy, but you can invest more into the health of those
 relationships?
 So let's take another step.
 Let me push you a little bit more here.
 Where do you see a deficit in your life that you need to intentionally search to fill?
 What do I mean by that?
 Do you need to pursue a new friendship?
 That may very well be a top priority.
 If you don't have good quality friendships, what would it be like to have one?
 Do you need to pursue a new mentor?
 Do you need to pursue a new coach, a new leader, a new trainer, or a counselor?
 Folks, if you're struggling here, get help and get it now.
 Don't keep putting this off.
 If you need help with this, maybe a good starting point is a two-day immersive life coaching
 event called Next Level Life.
 Whatacrystallcrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucrucru
 While you're here, be intentional with your relationships.
 None of us know how long we've got on the Earth.
 But time is too short not to be intentional with one of the greatest assets or unfortunately
 liabilities that we have the responsibility to manage.
 Be intentional.
 Make the choice today.
 Well, folks, that's all the time we have.
 Gosh, I hope this is helping you.
 I know so many of you out there are like, goodness, gracious man.
 He just stepped all over my toes on all in a good way.
 Yes, it's painful.
 Yes, it's difficult.
 Yes, many of you have incredibly toxic relationships and you may need help on how to set
 those healthy boundaries.
 Let us help out.
 We can do that.
 But I know a lot of you out there today are going, this was tough but good.
 Just choose.
 Choose to be intentional two day.
 You know a lot of people out there that need to hear this episode specifically share with them.
 Help them to hear this.
 Help them to be intentional.
 Again, I hope this information has helped you today.
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life
 and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]