 On today's episode, we talk a lot about having high levels of quality communication.
 But what does that actually look like?
 Let's talk about expressing needs.
 That is coming up next.
 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the show folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Now, we talk a ton about communication around here.
 And why is that?
 Well, because it's either your biggest asset or as we find in every single business
 that we work with, it is your biggest liability until you solve it.
 Once you solve it, that are at least a lot to fix it, then that becomes an incredible asset.
 But what we've discovered is every single business, communication or lack of high levels
 of quality communication is the biggest issue.
 Hands down.
 There's not a business that comes to us.
 And again, folks, we work with a ton of small businesses.
 We work with a ton of mom and pops or 510, 20 team members.
 We also work with large businesses as well.
 By far, in every business, doesn't matter what the size is.
 Communication is number one issue.
 Now, and especially by the way for the leadership team, because whatever level of communication
 you have at the leadership team, I can promise you it's going to be exaggerated out from
 there.
 So if it's not that great at the leadership level, it's going to be crappy once you get inside
 the team.
 Now, understanding this, it doesn't matter for dealing with a couple, you know, a husband and
 wife and a two day marriage next level of event or a team of executives sitting around the
 table and a week long strap plan.
 It does not matter.
 We discover that quality communication or, again, rather the lack there of, is 99% of the
 time the root cause of conflict.
 Disfunction and missed expectations.
 I've said it before that communication is the most important part of culture for leaders to
 lead well and right on its heels is accountability or what we call expectations for today.
 I can't overemphasize the importance of high levels of quality communication.
 Now, why do I point that out?
 Because many people have great abilities to communicate.
 Many people communicate a lot.
 We have teams that will come in and they believe that their communication is super.
 It's great.
 It's excellent because they like each other because they talk a lot.
 But that doesn't mean that the communication is actually quality.
 So what does it take to have great communication?
 Well, that's what we're going to take a few episodes and dive into.
 And this first one, we want to talk about expressing needs.
 Now, some of you might be hearing this.
 I'm probably a lot of entrepreneurs here that and go, oh, for the love.
 Are we talking about feelings?
 No, we're not talking about feelings.
 We're talking about being able to express needs.
 If you are a good leader or a great leader, you understand the importance of being able
 to communicate needs, right?
 Expressing that.
 So we're going to dive into a bunch of this, right?
 Now, one of the most difficult things to communicate is ones needs, whether on a team,
 in a marriage or everyday relationships, this can turn into a touchy subject and I mean fast.
 Anytime we're dealing with needs, people can tend to feel it deep down inside of their bones.
 And so the tendency is to become overly emotional, right?
 When we're talking about communicating needs, sometimes we feel like we have to get really
 emotional when doing so.
 And when we do that, we tend to communicate poorly or unclearly or unhealthily.
 And healthy and healthy.
 Meh, I'm making a port either way.
 Overly emotional people tend to put the burden of responsibility on others.
 One expressing their needs.
 Let me say that again, because I think a lot of times we don't recognize what's happening
 overly emotional people tend to put the burden of responsibility on others when expressing their needs.
 Now, it doesn't mean that the other person doesn't have responsibility, right?
 But when we're talking about our personal needs, whether it be in work or whether it be in relationship,
 whatever, we have a tendency and we see this.
 We will see this a lot in our marriage events.
 We'll see this a lot in the next level of life events.
 We will see this whenever we see an immature leadership team trying to communicate that when it comes
 to needs, it becomes your responsibility to solve my needs.
 I'm not saying that the other person doesn't have responsibility, maybe completely their responsibility.
 The key is not whose responsibility it is.
 It's how we're expressing the needs in the first place.
 And if we are overly emotional and we are putting the burden of responsibility on the other person,
 that's coming from our root system that could be coming from victim mentality, that could
 become how we tend to leverage relational power.
 So when communicating to emotionally, folks tend to over or under express the most important part,
 which is the needs.
 So they may say too much, or they may say too little.
 They'll go on and on and on about something that they're struggling with without clearly
 expressing and clearly explaining what the needs are.
 Or the opposite of that is, is that they'll hold back.
 They'll climb up there, they'll withdraw emotionally.
 And what we're missing here is what do you need?
 So if we become overly emotional, we speak too much.
 We talk too much.
 We can lose a person in the process.
 I can tell you with my personality style, I'm somebody who is a listener.
 Listen to people all the time.
 But when somebody goes ballistic with information, my brain says, I have to do something with
 everything you're giving me.
 So too much stuff takes me on the wrong path.
 Right?
 If you're overly communicating with information and not getting to the actual clear explanation
 of the needs, then I'm trying to figure out what all this information has to do with me.
 Why are you sharing this and what am I supposed to do with it?
 Where the person who's communicating it is going, well, I just need to get things out.
 I just need to talk to you things.
 I don't really want you to do anything with it.
 Well, then hold that information, right?
 Because my personality style wants to help you.
 You want us to do something with it.
 If you don't give information, and this is the thing we share all the time, especially
 with a strap plan, is I can help you with anything you share.
 Next level, if I can help you with anything that you share, but if you don't actually
 share it, then you're going to leave without any help with that.
 Because there's nothing I can do.
 If I don't know it, I can't help you with it.
 So if you don't share information, guess what?
 The person's not going to understand your needs.
 That's the first thing that they tend to do.
 The second thing they tend to do is exaggerate or even depreciate their needs.
 They'll use superlatives like I always, or you never.
 I can tell you, any high-eye, and I think I'm a 67, so I have a tendency to do this as well,
 any high-eye has a tendency to exaggerate what it is that we're talking about.
 I do it all the time on here.
 I've said it a thousand times, and maybe I've said it a hundred and fifty times.
 But there's always this exaggeration to express the thing that you're saying, however, sometimes
 when we're trying to express our needs, if we're saying things like, well, you never, what we'll
 find out is that's actually probably not true.
 It's probably, you know, maybe you don't do it 15% or 20% of the time.
 But if we're telling somebody, well, you never do this.
 If, and again, this is helping people to communicate clearly and helping people to walk
 through processes, what we tend to find is that that's not an accurate statement.
 And somebody says you never, or I always, it tends to be something that's a small portion,
 but the small portion is the thing that they're remembering in the moment.
 They're not remembering the other times when somebody has done something well, or, you know,
 that they haven't always done the thing that they're trying to communicate.
 So we have to watch the exaggeration, or even the appreciation, which is that they're
 going to shrug off their needs as though it doesn't matter.
 Many times it can be because they feel conflict.
 It can be because they feel like they're being a burden to the other person, or it can be that
 they're trying to communicate to the other person by saying, well, my needs obviously aren't
 important to you, so my needs are just aren't important at all.
 Don't worry about it.
 It's no big deal.
 It doesn't matter.
 And they're being passive aggressive.
 So that's another thing that we tend to see when people get to emotional is that they
 exaggerate, they can even depreciate.
 A third thing in both cases is that they don't listen objectively nor learn from the situation.
 So when somebody becomes overly emotional, they get so involved with their emotions that
 they lose objectivity, that the emotions create a picture or create a situation that is no
 longer objective.
 It's no longer accurate.
 It's no longer realistic.
 And that's a very difficult thing.
 When somebody is pending a reality that doesn't actually exist, especially if you don't do
 like what we do for a living, that's where we have to be able to pick through those things
 and point out the things that are incorrect.
 That's too much and no, that's not correct.
 That's not even a reality.
 When you're dealing with somebody who doesn't know that and doesn't understand that, then
 somebody painting a new reality can seriously muddy up the situation, muddy up what somebody
 is trying to understand about what you are claiming to be needs.
 If the reality is not a reality, now I'm really confused.
 I'm hearing you say you need something, but you just painted this reality that I don't even
 think that's accurate.
 Or another thing they can do is they can tend to come away feeling unheard and unaware of what
 just happened.
 Folks, I want to talk to my high-end of a realistic out there, my high-esthetic out there.
 If you, and so I want you to really ponder this.
 Don't be offended by this, ponder it because this will help you.
 If you need to be heard, you don't even have to be right, but you need to be heard.
 And you're dealing with somebody where you feel like you have not been heard.
 You could have completely have been heard, and still feel like you haven't been heard.
 So there's many times I know that sounds confusing, but there's many times that I will work
 with somebody, and I will see that the struggle that they're experiencing is that they don't
 feel like they're heard, and so instead of having a quality conversation with me, they will
 go on the attack.
 You're not even listening to me.
 No, I'm absolutely listening to you.
 And what I will tend to do is repeat back the very things that they've said, or I'll even
 say, what do you believe I have not heard?
 And then they will say something, and I will have already repeated it.
 I will have already said it, right?
 No, it's okay.
 Well, let me point to this over here.
 Now what is it that you're struggling with?
 Why are you feeling like you're not heard?
 So a lot of times a person who is overly emotional, and needs to be heard can feel like even
 it they are heard that they're not heard.
 But I hope this is crystal clear.
 So we have to understand in those moments, if you're the person who's struggling with needing
 to be heard, you have to understand that you may have been heard.
 I have to understand that you're struggling emotionally in the moment and have to start asking
 yourself some quality questions to find out if the attack that you're going on is real and
 accurate.
 So hopefully all of this has made sense so far.
 These are things that we have to pay attention to.
 As leaders, we need to pay attention to how, if somebody is talking too much and not explaining
 things clearly, if they're talking too little, and we're not getting to the needs,
 we have to understand if somebody is exaggerating or depreciating their needs.
 We have to understand if somebody is changing reality, not sticking to objectivity, or if somebody
 is only focused on being heard and not being accurate.
 So if we understand these things, then we can start to guide and direct the conversation.
 Now if you are the person who's trying to express these needs, you've got to understand
 these as soon as possible, you've got to check this in your communication to make sure that
 you actually get two your needs.
 Because in all of those situations, if any of those are you, then I don't know what you need.
 I don't understand.
 I can't solve the problem for you.
 I can't take care of you.
 I can't help you until I get to that clarity.
 Now we'll try.
 But it is a big ask to put on somebody else to figure out what you need when you're not communicating
 clearly.
 Let me just add that as another thing, when we become overly emotional, is that we can have
 a tendency to blame the other person for not understanding our needs and where the ones who have
 not communicated it clearly.
 So this responsibility has to come on.
 So with that said, let's dive into some practical keys that are going to help us to communicate
 our needs clearly with the people in our lives.
 Because here's what's at stake.
 Of communication is the lifeblood of organizations and relationships and it absolutely is.
 Then expressing one's needs and expectations is like the the carotid arteries in relationships.
 They supply that lifegiving blood and oxygen to the brain, to the central nervous system.
 Now I'm using these metaphors stick with me for just a second because if you take a look at
 the carotid arteries, they are the major blood vessels that provide your brain's blood supply.
 So a stroke occurs when something blocks blood flow to your brain causing a brain injury.
 Okay.
 So no, I'm not trying to offend anybody out there who's ever had a stroke.
 That's not the point here.
 Please don't take this personally.
 You should not.
 What I'm doing is helping you to understand how important communication is.
 A kind of stroke happens when we don't express legitimate needs, desires and expectations.
 Right.
 If we are not communicating well, if we are not delivering the blood supply, the quality communication,
 then we have this injury that technically happens to our organization, to our team, to our
 situation, to our relationship.
 Now what I'm talking about here is legitimate needs, desires and expectations.
 Notice that word legitimate, we're going to come back to that in just a minute.
 Now, once needs and expectations should be communicated, you know, expressed and received,
 in order to avoid a kind of relational or organizational stroke, right?
 This blocking of key information.
 Think of it that way.
 This is the key thought for today.
 A halt in blood flow, vital information, results in damage.
 If we do not have good blood flow, I.e.
 I levels of quality communication, then we have damage.
 Okay.
 So just stick with me on this.
 I know it's a fun metaphor.
 Maybe not a fun metaphor, but I think you're getting the point, right?
 So needs are infinitely more complicated to communicate.
 So when they are tethered to our motions, when we're agitated or angry or anxious, even legitimate
 needs can become distorted, right?
 So if we have a great need, once I back it up with a motion, then the idea of the need or
 the need itself can become incredibly distorted.
 So if we understand this, then hopefully we can remove a lot of those motions, right?
 There's a lot of damage done in relationships when expressing needs in an unhealthy way.
 Now I'll just kind of dig into this a little bit, right?
 When a common thing, a common thing for couples is when I need something, if I become emotional
 about those needs, or maybe I have background with my spouse of how my spouse responds
 to something, then I pack that into my communication.
 So let's say that I need some attention from my wife right now on a specific subject.
 I don't know.
 Let's say I need my wife's help in making a decision on where we're going on vacation.
 But if I've experienced in the past that my wife doesn't like to give input and my wife absolutely
 loves to give input on where we go on vacation, but let's say that she doesn't like to
 give it.
 Just pick a place, Chris.
 I don't want to deal with it.
 I want you to just pick a place.
 Then I might take that history and pack that emotionally into the expression of the need.
 What's the need?
 I just want some input.
 Do you want to go here, here, here, here?
 Do you want to go someplace?
 Do you want to go someplace?
 Do you want to go someplace?
 Do you want to go someplace with a man?
 I just need just some input.
 That's all I'm looking for.
 But if I know that my spouse refuses to give input, then what happens to me and again, I know
 you married couples right now are going, "Oh my gosh, I've experienced this 10,000 times
 just this last week alone."
 What I can tend to do is pack that expectation of how she's going to respond into my expressing
 of my needs.
 If I believe she's not going to give input, then I could become passive aggressive.
 I can go on the attack.
 I could say things like, "Hey, listen, if you don't help me out with this, then I guess we
 don't need to go on vacation."
 I always talk to you about this and you never give any input whatsoever.
 We never get to go someplace fun and then whenever we get there, you're always frustrated or
 you hate the place that we've gone to.
 I'm throwing a lot into this, but I'm not that far off.
 I'm probably not far off at all.
 That's probably pretty accurate to what some people experience.
 If my wife did not give me any input ever, then I can feel the responsibility for picking
 a vacation and maybe the, I don't know, the stress of getting the right place or however
 people look at this, I don't really stress about that.
 I look forward to it.
 But the stress of picking the right place or the stress of my spouse not being happy or or or
 fill in the blank.
 So if I am expressing my needs in an unhealthy way, which is I need your input and I'm just
 picking something super basic.
 If we rolled this up into a business situation, it could be, I need your help on this project,
 it could be, I need leadership on how to make this thing happen over here.
 It could be any of these things, anything like this.
 If I'm expressing my needs in an healthy way, then it is not difficult for me to pack
 in a whole bunch of the different situations that we talked about just a minute ago, the exaggerating
 being emotional, not listening, saying too much to whatever it is.
 So if I'm packing my emotions into the expression of my needs in this example of a marriage
 situation, then you can see how much I've just jacked up any great communication.
 There's not going to be any great communication.
 I've already set a reality.
 I've put my spouse on the defensive.
 What are we talking about here?
 We're talking about getting to a great vacation.
 Right?
 And I'm already starting this thing off in a way that everybody's going to be unhappy.
 So that's what we need to understand.
 So what's healthy look like?
 Well, let's start with what makes a need legitimate.
 So point one is identifying needs.
 Some people have trouble expressing real legitimate, healthy needs.
 And it could be for a variety of reasons.
 It could be because you need other people.
 It could be that you're struggling with the need of other people to have other people involved.
 You want to be able to do things on your own and you don't want other people's input.
 Right?
 So choice or you need other people.
 That could jack things up.
 It could be that you don't like being vulnerable.
 That is a big, big issue that we see even with teams that believe that they're incredibly
 vulnerable.
 What you find out is that when it comes to being able to give input on what they're doing or
 give input on how they should change things or fix things, then what we find is a lot
 of times people can't be that vulnerable.
 For a lot of husbands and wives, you can't be vulnerable with your spouse allowing them to speak
 into changes that you need to do or things you're struggling with.
 And so vulnerability just goes right out the window and so expressing a need can be incredibly
 difficult because expressing the need may mean that you're saying I need to be vulnerable
 with my spouse or my leader or my team member.
 I'm just not able to do that.
 All these makes sense.
 It also could mean that you're risking rejection in the situation.
 Now this is another, all three of these are super powerful reasons why people don't express
 their needs well.
 Having to need other people, having to be vulnerable and in a big way, taking the risk of rejection
 for a lot of folks is not something that they're able to do.
 And so the fear of being rejected is going to keep them from communicating well.
 So any of these could be their own topics of discussion.
 We could break each one of these down into a whole, each one could be their own show.
 But before we go any further, if this is resonating with you, then I'm going to say get the
 help that you need to get unstuck and move forward.
 And I'm pretty darn positive.
 This is resonating with everybody who's listening.
 Folks, we see lots of people come to their next level of life who struggling with their communication
 especially while expressing legitimate needs in their marriage.
 There's many times that we have people that struggle because they believe they're wrong,
 they're bad, they're not worthy, they're not good enough.
 And yet they're very legitimate with the needs.
 They just need to learn how to express them.
 It's not something to be embarrassed about.
 It's part of this broken world that we live in.
 But it's also not something that just fixes itself or goes away if we ignore it.
 In fact, for many of you, you might be getting your reality set on a daily basis that your
 needs aren't legitimate.
 So if you're really serious about fixing this, then get yourself into a next level of
 event.
 Let me say this as well.
 Because communication can be a complex subject, some personality styles struggle with identifying
 or describing what they're failing and why they're feeling that way completely understandable.
 Every personality style has strengths and weaknesses.
 And for some, it's a little easier to articulate what they're feeling.
 Maybe even a little too easy at times, right?
 Some may need a filter.
 But as we look at personality styles, if you understand the way that you handle conflict,
 if you understand the way that you receive and give information, if you understand how you act
 and react, if you've not done your personality styles profile, go get it done, go to the
 story and get it done.
 Our story.
 So that you can kind of understand how you act, react, give information, receive information.
 If you can look at your personality style, you've probably got a pretty good idea of where
 you struggle in expressing.
 Obviously, if I just break this down into the most basic, high-dees, going to be very dominant,
 the concept of need, they don't want to need people.
 So it could be a very dominant way of saying that they need something which could set somebody
 off.
 High-eye, again, we're probably going to be overexpressive on what our needs are, which is going
 to muddy up the waters with too much emotion as well.
 High-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye,
 high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye,
 high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye,
 high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high-eye, high
 too many details about what's needed and over-express information as opposed to clarity of needs.
 Now those are just basic.
 So if you're offended by any of those, then you probably don't understand your personality
 style very well.
 Those are just basic understandings of personality styles.
 The sooner we understand those and how we express ourselves, the sooner we can change any
 additions to the clarity of expressing needs, and just express the clarity of need.
 And remove anything that's affecting that.
 Now, wherever you might fall in the personality style spectrum,
 objective has to be clear communication.
 And for some people that begins with identifying and examining their needs,
 you've got to do the hard work of understanding yourself.
 And what you really need, someone may want to go back and listen to episode 460,
 which is learning to lead yourself better before others, if you need to dig deep and
 do some work in this area that will help you automatically.
 So make sure we start with understanding what your needs are.
 Now, point two is legitimate needs.
 Let's dig into what makes a need legitimate.
 So just to be clear, I'm not talking about having zero filter on your brain and mouth,
 and just blurting out everything that you think you need or desire.
 How levels of quality communication means that sometimes you have to be selective about
 what you choose to say as well as how you choose to say it.
 So think about what and how in these two examples.
 So when it comes to leadership, we do not need leaders who tell the team every single morning
 all the ways that they've disappointed them over the last 24 hours, right?
 Same thing with husbands and wives and a personal relationship, right?
 We don't need a husband or wife breaking out the laundry list of the ways you've disappointed
 me lately, right?
 Those are terrible ways of communicating.
 Now, with that understanding and we all agree with that, not communicating missed expectations,
 thus holding each other accountable to agreed upon outcomes is a slippery slope towards disaster.
 So we've got to find this right balance.
 It doesn't do any good to come out and go, here's all the things you've done that's wrong and
 you screwed up and I'm disappointed, but at the same time, if we don't actually communicate
 missed expectations or things that have been agreed upon, then that gets us a massive lack
 of accountability, which is the number two thing that every business struggles with heavily.
 So we'll get to expectations and accountability in a minute, but first, let's take a look
 at legitimate needs starting at ground zero, the most basic of human needs.
 So needs 101, all humans have needs.
 Take a common illustration like Maslow's hierarchy of needs.
 Now Abraham Maslow was a 20th century American psychologist who basically said that for humans
 to thrive, they've got to address their basic needs in priority, moving from basic to complex.
 So basic human needs started the base physical level, then physiological, then psychological,
 etc.
 So number one is food, physical needs.
 Number two is water, physical needs.
 Number three is shelter, physiological needs.
 Number four is safety, safety and security.
 Number five is love, psychological needs.
 Right?
 And we can keep continuing on with the needs that we have.
 In other words, we need food, water, and shelter, then feeling safe and secure and having
 a reasonable sense of being protected and not in harm's way, etc.
 And whether at home or office, you need that, your partner needs that.
 Your team needs those things.
 Safety and security is a need in an office environment.
 So think about this.
 When we're talking about work, is your responsibility is needed to provide number one and
 number two food and water?
 No.
 Well, they're, yes, about probably, right, unless they're remote.
 You know, if you get brick and mortar, then yes, what's the next thing that somebody needs?
 What is called, and you know, a lot of work that we've done in the trauma world,
 is what's called felt safety, safety and security.
 A team member needs to feel safe and secure.
 Your spouse needs to feel safe and secure.
 Your children absolutely need to feel safe and secure.
 These are things that we may need to express to others.
 If I don't feel safe and secure with you, I need to be able to communicate that clearly.
 So that's one of the things we talk about when it comes to healthy boundaries.
 It's tough to maintain a relationship with someone who's always trying to harm you.
 We have had so many folks.
 I wouldn't say 50%, probably 40%, maybe.
 Strong 35%, 40% of folks that have come through next level, I have to have people that
 are controlling.
 That have people that are manipulative in their lives.
 I can tell you as somebody who has had people that desire to hurt me throughout my entire life.
 That's a big reason why we do what we do is I had to figure out how to fix this stuff and
 how to put in healthy boundaries and how to change the way that I approach people and how to
 make sure that unhealthy people aren't a part of my inner circle and making sure healthy people
 are.
 All of these different aspects.
 I can tell you that's a difficult life.
 It's a painful life.
 It's a tough life.
 There's a time in my life and my late teens and early 20s that I just swore off people.
 I just didn't even like people anymore.
 I just spent hurt so many times and it wasn't until God made it clear to me, "Hey, you
 don't have to let them hurt you.
 You, high altruist, keep allowing people to hurt you."
 You don't have to.
 You need healthy boundaries.
 You need to grow backbone.
 I can tell you it's really difficult if you have somebody in your life or if you're in a relationship
 with somebody who's always trying to harm you, that's tough.
 That's painful.
 That is difficult.
 I don't know for me, I think that's probably the thing that I hate the most in relationships
 is if I have a relationship with somebody who's trying to harm me and guess what, folks.
 I've had it in my personal relationships my whole life.
 I've had it in business relationships.
 99% of our clients are phenomenal.
 Amazing people.
 Loving people.
 Don't want to hurt you kind of people.
 And then every now and then we'll get a client who they are just bent on trying to hurt somebody.
 They are bent on being controlling a manipulative.
 They are bent on, you know, they might have greed backing it up.
 There's all kinds of things that could be backing it up.
 But their goal is, I want to hurt you.
 I'm going to do what it takes to hurt you.
 I don't like what you said or whatever.
 So I'm going to do everything I can to try and bring you pain.
 It happens.
 Those are the times and I've had to fire a couple of clients over stuff like that.
 It's only been a couple.
 Praise God.
 Oh, yeah.
 We've got phenomenal clients.
 But every now and then one just gets out of control and it is the worst type of relationship.
 It is not worth your time.
 It's just not.
 It's not worth your, and nobody's money is going to be worth no amount of money is going to be
 worth dealing with that level of just ridiculousness.
 So these things in Maslow's list are needed in order for humans to survive and then to thrive.
 Needs are not wants or desires.
 Needs are necessary.
 For example, your spouse showing you affection is a need that he or she is funny at a dinner
 party is not.
 I need my wife's affection that fills me up that allows me to operate my best.
 When I know that I have my wife's affection, when I know that my wife cherishes me, that I'm
 able to operate at my best.
 That my wife is funny at a dinner party.
 That is not a need.
 My wife's already funny.
 But my wife also sometimes doesn't like to talk.
 So it just kind of depends on the situation.
 She's it.
 Sometimes she's incredibly social and sometimes not so much.
 So her being funny is not a need at a dinner party, right?
 So these are things that we have to understand.
 What is legitimate about the need?
 So now let's take a little switch and talk about spiritual needs.
 So before we move on, there's another category of needs that's important to consider.
 Now I'm going to level with you as a believer when we don't feel loved cared for, accepted
 by our Heavenly Father, then we will go looking to fulfill even legitimate needs in illegitimate
 ways.
 This is where so many people get in trouble.
 Where so many people seek worth, acceptance approval from man instead of seeking it from God.
 Now I just shared that I need my wife's affection.
 Yes, that is something that I do need.
 And well above her need, my wife comes second in my life and I come second in her life.
 I need God, right?
 When we are not getting even our basic needs met, but especially when we're not seeking
 in gaining our needs from God, then we struggle with our identity.
 We struggle with what our purpose is.
 If we are on a great journey with the one who created us, then we understand what our identity
 is, then we understand what our purpose and life is.
 And we understand who he is and how he gives us life in due to autonomy.
 I hate that it's not translated well, but in due to autonomy it says, God is life.
 He loves you.
 He brings you hope.
 He is life.
 What does that mean?
 You do not exist without him.
 You do not breathe without him.
 Your blood does not flow through your veins without him.
 You don't process food without him.
 You have no business, no team, no family, no children, no hope without him.
 Period.
 No matter what you've convinced yourself of, if you've convinced yourself that you do, sorry,
 you're wrong.
 God is life.
 You did not create your life.
 Nobody else created your life.
 He's the one who has everything in his hands, right?
 So it's important for us that we do some really, really hard work here to find out what does
 he say our worth is.
 What does he say our identity is?
 The cool thing is that God wants us to tell him our needs, even though he already tells
 us that he already understands him.
 He already knows what we need, but he wants us turning to him.
 It's not a matter of, well, he already knows what I need.
 I don't need to say anything, no, you need a relationship.
 You need to communicate with him.
 He wants to hear us speak to him, be vulnerable, reach out to him, recognize that he is the
 only person who can solve all of our needs.
 He's actually really direct about it.
 Listen to it in this verse.
 Don't worry about anything instead pray about everything.
 Tell God what you need and thank him for all his done, Philippians 4/6.
 So if you are a believer, scripture tells us to tell God our deepest needs and desires, can
 vites us while he instructs us, I should say, to tell him what we need.
 We're supposed to express our needs to God.
 Alright, moving on, point three, expressing expectations.
 Now we've identified what our legitimate needs are in the relationship.
 Great.
 That's fantastic.
 Now what?
 Then we've got to express them in a healthy and objective way, setting realistic expectations
 and allowing others to take responsibility into remain accountable.
 So think about the various expectations that can come into playing the following scenarios.
 One may be, your spouse may need you to pick up your child from daycare or your boss may
 need you to come into work on your day off or your romantic partner may need you to listen carefully.
 Now you've probably been in one or more of these situations and you can see how they can get messy.
 Damage caused by missed expectations or not getting one's needs met is the number one form
 of relational stress and a relationship.
 Maybe you can't pick up your child from daycare or maybe you can't come in on your day off.
 But you do have to respond in a healthy and objective way.
 So every situation is different, but this is part of the negotiation process, folks.
 Where needs need to be addressed.
 Think about what your response would be in any of those situations.
 Maybe you can't pick up your child, maybe you can't come in the day off.
 How do you express your needs?
 How do you express?
 How do you make sure that you communicate clearly when somebody is expecting something?
 What if your spouse is like, "Hey, you've got to go pick up little Johnny from daycare and what
 if you can't?"
 Then the negotiation process starts.
 How do we communicate clearly?
 Maybe you are stuck on a project somewhere.
 Maybe you've got something super important.
 Maybe you just ask, "What your spouse is doing?"
 Why are they not able to pick up whatever it is?
 We need to have that discussion started.
 Not just you must and you don't understand and you don't ever hear me and I'm always picking
 up little Johnny and we've got to start having clear communication.
 And yes, it shouldn't be communicated to you.
 You need to go pick up our child a daycare.
 It actually should involve information that helps you to understand why the person who was
 going to pick up the child can't do it.
 These are all things that we need to think about.
 Some things to also think about as you experience some of these discussions is, you know,
 did the situation become the blame game in your mind?
 You never do this or you haven't done this or whatever.
 Are we focused on blaming somebody?
 Are we focused on responding thoughtfully to what is being said?
 Did you try to gain some perspective or negotiate the outcome?
 Hey, I hear you, what's going on?
 What happened?
 Is there a reason?
 What happened to you?
 Let me care about my spouse.
 Maybe something jacked up my spouse's day that they can't go and pick up.
 The child maybe something is terrible or painful or difficult or whatever.
 Let me gain some perspective.
 Hey, baby, are you okay?
 What do you experience?
 Instead of just going in and battling, I can't go pick up our child.
 Maybe find out what's going on with your spouse right then and there.
 How do you solve that?
 How do you gain some perspective?
 What if you just find out that maybe they just don't want to?
 Maybe there's some negotiation that can happen here, right?
 So here's something funny from Michael Scott's character on the office about communication.
 He says, "When people work together, there's going to be conflict.
 You can't outrun your problems and that's why the idea of a cage match is so universally
 appealing."
 So, at the end of the day, if you can't communicate well, get in the cage and just beat it out
 of each other.
 That should definitely work out.
 So there may be some truth to that.
 Maybe sometimes it takes a really difficult and tough conversation to get to a good conflict.
 Hopefully it's not a Thunderdome style for those of you that are old enough, "Oh, and
 best Tina Turner just passed recently, not too long ago."
 So there you go, reference to Tina Turner.
 Hopefully it's not a Thunderdome style, right?
 That's not ever going to make things good.
 Not only it should always always be the last resort, right?
 Remember the safety and security thing, right?
 People need to feel safe.
 And so work on helping them to feel safety.
 Stephen Arcovy says, "Seek first, understand."
 Then to be understood, right?
 So if we're looking at that, "Hey, you need to go pick up our child.
 Let me first try and understand what's going on with you."
 And then if I have a need that makes it very difficult or impossible, then let me try and explain
 that in a clear, clear way.
 This is not always our first and first thought, right?
 Although sometimes the cage match probably is our first and first thought.
 Instead we have to learn to ask questions and gain perspective before insisting on our own viewpoint.
 So having high levels of quality communication is v key to having healthy, functioning teams
 and relationships.
 Learning to express needs is part of this process.
 So when our communication sucks, then the relationship is suffer.
 And yes, it's the same thing with anybody else in the communication as well.
 So to wrap this up, here's a simple progression that will help you stay objective about
 your needs.
 Then you've got to take responsibility for your own feelings.
 Yes, you do.
 Number two, other people can't make you feel one way or another, stop using that.
 Number three, acknowledge what you feel and decide what to do with it.
 Number four, taking responsibility for how you feel will help you get clarity.
 Number five, you gain clarity when you acknowledge and deal with feelings.
 Let me say that one again, you gain clarity when you acknowledge and deal with feelings.
 Number six, it frees you to speak objectively about legitimate needs, healthily, healthily.
 Again, am I making that order?
 It's working for me.
 Then number seven, your part to communicate is done now.
 What's up to the other person.
 So, whoo, lots of information.
 Hopefully that has been helpful for you guys.
 That's all the time that we have for today.
 But hopefully this is helping you to recognize that you can have a much better conversation
 with a spouse, with children, with a team member, with a team leader on expressing your needs
 through clarity.
 Hopefully this is giving you some great tools to do so.
 So, as always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change
 your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]