 On today's episode, we are talking about artificial intelligence with the director of
 strategy from consult webs, Grant Brought.
 Listen in as he shares insights on what it is, what it isn't, where it's headed, and what
 you should do with it.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acordo Show, where we discuss leadership and life, and discover
 that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 I am having a great day, because joining me in studio today, while in virtual studio today,
 is Grant Brought.
 Grant, welcome to the show.
 Thanks Chris, great to be here.
 It is so good having you on, and I'm going to talk about all the stuff that you do, but
 first I want to recognize that you also were a sergeant in the Marine Corps.
 So first I want to say thank you so much for your service.
 We greatly appreciate that into everybody who has served.
 Thank you.
 You not only were in the military, you're an SEO manager, you're a Google analytics expert,
 you're lead marketing consultant, you're the director of strategy, and most recently I
 love this.
 I can't wait to understand it.
 You're the next level prompt engineer with AI.
 So obviously that's how it's pretty impressive, but what in the world does that even mean?
 It is a course that I went there in a completely a choice to be in a year that goes through
 using prompts and how to communicate with AI, a big part of using AI these days is communicating
 with it.
 How do you talk to AI?
 How do you get what you want from it?
 That course goes very deep into all of that to help you to get better results from communicating
 with AI tools out there.
 Now, I know we're going to have to get into a lot of information on this because there's so
 many details of just trying to understand AI.
 We just had you at our next level of mastermind retreat a few weeks ago and you freaking killed
 it with great information.
 I mean, everybody there was just so locked in and everybody had their computers open, everybody
 was working on AI learning how to use this stuff.
 It was amazing.
 The prompt aspect of it was such a big piece, which I'm sure we'll probably get more into that,
 learning how to set these things up to make AI work for you the best possible.
 Some of the things that people are probably used to hearing lately is like chat GPT.
 I know that that's until you, that was the one AI that I knew of.
 I'm sure that's probably the same thing that most clients have learned from and all that
 kind of stuff.
 But we want to dig into as much as we possibly can.
 Before we do that, or actually starting to do that, can you give us an introduction into just
 as simple as possible, a simple explanation of what artificial intelligence is and how
 in the world can benefit small businesses.
 I know there's no way you could cover it all, but if you just give us the simple, the
 simplistic explanation.
 Yeah, I think start with artificial intelligence when you hear that word, you think like
 stuff from the movies, Terminator, I robot and stuff like that where it's these intelligent robot
 creatures doing things and that is not what we have today.
 We are far off from that.
 What we have today is a piece of what that is made up of.
 We have that communication piece.
 Chat GPT is basically a chat bot that uses different things like natural language and deep learning
 and neural networks to learn from a set of knowledge.
 It's basically a giant database of information and from that database, it can pull information
 and create human-like responses.
 It's not thinking for itself.
 It's not creative.
 It doesn't have a motion.
 It doesn't have bias at its root.
 It's almost like a statistical math problem.
 It's calculating what the next word likely is and it's repeating that over and over again to
 give you a response.
 So it's that communication piece.
 That first step in communication for AI.
 It's so complicated to understand and then once you get into it, it just makes so much sense.
 Yeah.
 It's this beginning process of going, okay, great.
 I don't even know half of what you just said there.
 I don't understand it, but I know this thing is out there and everybody's saying that I need
 to use it.
 So for the small businesses, what are some specific cases where AI can be particularly beneficial?
 Like I know one of my favorite things were sitting there and we have one of our clients as
 you were teaching owns a bakery.
 Small business bakery.
 As you're teaching this, I'm sitting back there going, here we are coming up on Thanksgiving
 because this is a few weeks ago and I'm like, I wonder what this thing can spit out marketing
 wise.
 Now listen to me people because this is so fantastic.
 So that's one of the things I suggest.
 I'm like, so Grant, what about Charlotte back here, he's got this bakery, what could this
 do marketing wise and Charlotte turns around, types in this whole thing about her Thanksgiving
 roles and her Thanksgiving turkey.
 And within seconds, she had a social media campaign that spit out just the granted, like,
 she read this thing off and all of us are going, man, I want those roles.
 So I mean, just like something so simple as just marketing, but what are some specific uses
 where small businesses can use AI?
 Yeah, I think there's a lot of benefits for small businesses with this technology and just
 getting in there with chat, GPT or other tools like Claude and playing with it is kind of your
 start.
 But social media posting, like you just talked about, is a quick and easy way to get in there
 and give it some information about what you're looking for for a social post and ask it to
 provide you a Facebook post and Instagram post or whatever it might be.
 And now since we're at the retreat now, you've actually got image stuff built into
 the chat GPT, it's all in one chat session.
 So you could literally talk to it and be like, hey, I need a social post for these roles on Thanksgiving
 and then I need an image of roles next to a turkey and it would create you an image of roles
 next to a turkey that you could even use.
 And so the ease of use and creation and there is phenomenal now.
 And that's just like the social is just, that's a quick and easy way to get in there.
 But think about anything that requires brainstorming, research, content outlining, content drafting,
 all of those are quick, easy areas to get in there and start playing with it and just kind
 of talk to it.
 Think of it as you were talking to it, if you're doing social media, treat it like it's a social
 media person and you're having a conversation with that person.
 Ask it about questions, be like, hey, how could I improve this?
 What do I need for this?
 Ask it questions.
 You could even go as far as just asking it, hey, this is what I'm trying to do.
 Can you do this?
 Okay, ask me some questions to help me guide you in doing this with me and it will guide you
 and ask you questions and information that it wants to know in order to complete the task
 you're asking it to do.
 I love what the things you put it out towards the end was one day you just asked it, what
 can you do in this area?
 Can it give you like five or ten different things?
 Well, I could do this, I could do this, I could do this.
 So something so simple and again, we're just talking about the marketing aspect, but seriously,
 like if you were writing content for something or for some folks who needed to create, let's
 say a process, writing small business processes inside of their business on how to do something,
 this is a process where you could put information in, I need you to write up a step
 by step process for how to do this and then again, back to the prompting thing with this information,
 this information, this information, yadiyada yada yada.
 And it spits out something that's spectacular.
 Doesn't mean that it's going to be 100%.
 Doesn't mean, and one of the things you pointed out is currently chat GPT only pulls information
 all the way up to 2021, I think.
 They just updated that.
 So they had a dev day a couple weeks ago.
 So it's now up to April of this year, April of 2023.
 And they say they're going to continue to keep it updated like that.
 So my guess is every three to six months, they're going to do some sort of update to it to
 bring it current.
 It's like it's going to more.
 So if you're looking for really super current stuff, then one of the things that you have to
 realize is that it may not have all of that information.
 So you said it so many times during the retreat, hey, you have to check, you fact check yourself.
 You have to fact check everything that you're getting out of this.
 However, the ability to plug information in, get a lot of receive good quality information.
 Fact check it if you have to change for five things.
 So what?
 Just don't be dumb enough to send it out.
 Don't don't take the first draft and send that out, put that out somewhere online or go through
 and make sure all the information is correct.
 But the ability to take, I need this new process on how to, I don't know, the guys in
 the detail bay on how to detail a car.
 And you do a walk by walk, our step by step piece on how to do this and hand that to them
 and go, here's how you do this.
 This is, and you can always make adjustments all that kind of stuff.
 The ability to come up with content, hey, I need, you know, my kid is researching a paper on, you
 know, 1776.
 What exactly happened?
 Who did what?
 Who signed what?
 What was it all about?
 Boom, all of this information comes flooding in and then you can utilize that information.
 Yes, it sounds like it's, well, can't I just get that from Google?
 But really what's happening is it's formatting it in a way that you decide to tell, maybe
 a story.
 And, you know, I think one of the things you can have it written and then, like, let's say we're
 doing social media posts and then say, hey, great post, can you make this funnier?
 Can you make this shorter?
 Can you make this sound more professional?
 All of those different things.
 How important is it for small businesses to get started on this even if they just choose, like,
 one or two areas?
 I think it's, everybody needs to be playing with this.
 Everybody should go set up a chat, GP, to e account.
 Even if it's just a free version, the paid version has so many more features and capacity to
 it.
 But even just getting in there on the free version and playing with it, you're going to
 need to know this.
 You're going to need to understand it, be able to use it and not just you, but your kids.
 Like your kids need to use it and understand how to use it the right way.
 You mentioned that, you know, looking something up and researching it, that was one of the
 first things I did with Chad GPT was my kid had a project on.
 The food chain and his thing was green algae and we could not find physical and behavioral
 characteristics to save our lives that day.
 Later I was like, "Oh, I wonder if I put this in there and ask it if it can give me the answer."
 And it did.
 I was like, "Well, we've got the answer.
 Now we've got to find the reference."
 And so then we went and googled the answers to find the books that it came from.
 But then later I found out that you could just be like, "Hey, where do you pull this
 information?
 Can you give me the citations and it gave me the citations?"
 But we spent two hours doing what have been done in like two, three minutes if we would have
 known that ahead of time.
 But so much of what you can do in this tool is still learning what is possible in it.
 And so just getting in there and trying, when we're at the retreat somebody's like, "Well,
 can it change the format of an image, can it upscale or downscale?"
 And I don't know, ask it.
 And so we asked it and it said, "No, I can't, but this is how you can do it in Photoshop."
 And then it gave step by step instructions on how to open the image and Photoshop and change the
 scaling and stuff of it.
 And we looked in, it was like, "Oh, that's exactly how you do it.
 That's exactly how I do this and there."
 And so it's very accurate.
 But you do have to QA everything.
 But no, get in there and play with it.
 You don't often hear that with new technology and stuff in business.
 But this really is like new and it's moving so quickly, just go play with it and ask it questions
 and have a conversation, have fun with it.
 First steps, you would suggest the first person goes to at least a free account from chat
 GBT.
 The paid account is like 20 bucks a month or something like that.
 20 a month.
 And you get better stuff, plus you could do images in the paid chat GBT.
 There are multiple platforms out there.
 You just mentioned a few little while ago.
 But would you suggest the chat GBT is where they start?
 I think so.
 After their dev day, it's come so far.
 Now you can do advanced data analysis.
 You can do image generation.
 You can actually on the mobile device.
 You can download it onto your phone.
 And you can have an audio conversation back and forth with it now on your phone.
 And so instead of having the types of stuff in, you can hit the record and you can
 just talk to it.
 And then you submit that and it translates that and then it responds to you.
 And it talks back to you.
 You can choose the voice and everything with it.
 It's pretty cool.
 But there are other tools out there.
 Some people like Claude, a little better, CLAUD, is the other tool.
 Same price point if you wanted to pay version.
 It's $20 a month also.
 We see slightly cleaner responses in text from it.
 It just kind of reads a little better sometimes.
 But it doesn't have the image generation aspect in there yet.
 I've not gotten in there.
 So I don't know other things have changed.
 But I know with chat GBT that advanced data analysis of being able to upload a file and have
 it go through the file and analyze it.
 You can upload a set of data from your business and have it analyzing and give you insights and
 stuff like that.
 So very powerful thing.
 You can also upload an image and have it analyze that image and tell you what it is and explain
 things to you or create images similar to it.
 So again, just get in there and play with it.
 But yeah, chat GBT is a great starting point.
 What about how important is data for AI implementation?
 What are some best practices for collecting and managing data?
 Yeah, so it's got to be clean.
 So I don't know how much has changed since the dev day.
 But last time I checked it reads and understands Microsoft documents.
 So the current version like doc doc X and stuff.
 And so any current version of that or Excel or PowerPoint even you can upload those into it
 and it natively can read and understand those file formats.
 And so that's one way to make sure you're more successful with anything you provide it in
 file format.
 The other thing is like with spreadsheets, you have to keep that clean.
 So you can't, if you upload spreadsheet with lots of tabs and lots of information on it and
 there's a lot of missing information.
 So there's missing inputs on different rows and columns and stuff like that.
 It will run into issues.
 And it will have to troubleshoot to try to overcome those all the time.
 And so if you can provide it complete and clean data of only what it needs to do what you're
 asking it to, you're going to be more successful with it.
 Okay.
 I think one of the things that I've enjoyed about this.
 So we're not a company, you know, we teach leadership, we teach how to run a business, we teach
 all this stuff, how to do processes.
 But it's hilarious.
 I would have loved to have had in the past where I had somebody who's like a very high detail
 personality style, high sea personality style, who's working on something.
 Medits out.
 All my high seas out there know that when you're putting something together, you're putting
 together facts.
 You are putting together pieces of information that are very factual because your goal is to communicate
 the facts of whatever it is.
 There are big tobs of the past that I've had like a high sea working on something like maybe
 it's going to be an email to a group of people or maybe it's going to be a process or something.
 And then when I get it back, it's just like very incredibly sterile and factual.
 I would have loved because at the time, there's so many tobs I've turned to somebody and
 he said, hey, here's what I want you to do, lighten this up, make it a little bit funny.
 You say that to a 99's say and they look at you like, are you on crack or something?
 How are the world, I'm going to take this and make it.
 My goal is to make it funny.
 My goal is to get you the information that you need, right?
 But you could literally load up like let's say you had somebody write up a process for something
 or write up a letter that you're going to send out to clients or let's say you were sending
 a end of the year celebration letter to clients or something like that.
 You load that document up into chat GPT and then say, make this funny.
 Make it shorter, make it longer, make it sound more professional.
 And then you can breathe into your own information something like humor and it literally.
 And I mean really well, like I said, the social media stuff that Charlotte put together,
 they're all salivating and it took her like 30 seconds to put this information in and it came
 out with like the greatest social media post where you like, oh my gosh, I want those
 rolls.
 But you can put stuff in there and then all of a sudden it just makes it funny and it lightens
 up your, you know, the information that you're sharing where, you know, if you've got that
 information and I think the thing I really want people to understand is is that you can
 take current stuff that you have, like you're saying, you know, take this information
 as data that you've already got plug in in and utilize AI on the stuff you've already written.
 Sometimes you can get it to write all brand new stuff, you know, what you're going to have to
 check the day lights out of it, but it's still going to be great.
 But what other things can people be doing with their like their current content or something
 that they're currently creating?
 I think that's running with that idea not only with current content, but to get the content
 output that you want that is in your voice and tone, you can feed it information.
 So you could take a transcript of like this podcast and we could upload it and it could then
 learn your voice and tone and then when it responds, it will respond closer and line to how
 you talk and words you use and stuff like that.
 So the more you feed it, the more unique the output is the more catered it is to you as a
 person and so for small businesses, I think that's a huge benefit because you can put your expertise
 and authority into it and have it help you create more content and expand things in your
 own voice.
 Yeah, I thought it was funny when you shared, you would not share that you guys put something
 together and then you're like, okay, I make just this to Chris LaCardos voice and it
 actually wrote it in my voice which is just like kind of fun and creep you at the same time.
 Because I'm sure there's lots of weird things people can do with that but the ability
 to take something that you've already done, you know, I'm assuming that you've got to have
 a decent amount of data from your own voice of things that you've done or can it be a
 small amount?
 A lot with a small amount.
 We took a two minute video recording of a client.
 Yeah.
 And we actually took the two minute transcript and uploaded it and it created an entire blog post
 and a whole month worth of social media posts.
 Off of that two minute transcript and it was like quotes and gave additional little scripts
 to shoot additional little videos on it and it was pretty on par with how that client
 spoke and stuff and that was off of a two minute video.
 I know some of the things out there, there's tools like 11 labs that can clone and recreate
 your voice and for a really high quality version of that, you need about 10 minutes of audio
 recording for it to be able to recreate your voice and then it can speak and talk and you
 know at the retreat we talked about it but there was a journalist who actually did that
 and her voice recording was able to bypass chase the credit card companies initial voice authentication
 security measure to then put her through to a real person for additional verification and stuff
 like that.
 So it's very accurate with that 10 minutes of input in how it recreates your voice and tone.
 And so not only can you use a tool like Cheshipy to create the content side of it in your
 voice and tone but then you could throw it into a tool like 11 labs where you clone your voice and
 then when you bring those two together now you can not only is it writing in your voice but
 you can have it talking in your voice too.
 That is just so crazy.
 That is insane.
 A lot of people out there going, wait a second, I can get through Chase's what?
 Right now?
 No, they've already figured that out.
 You're not getting through the gut that taken care.
 Okay, so I'm a small business owner, I'm a small business leader, you know, I'm a customer
 service leader or agent or something like that.
 How can AI be used to improve like customer engagement, customer support?
 I know we talked about some of the marketing stuff but what about other aspects like getting clients
 engagement or trying to support them?
 How can we use AI?
 Yeah, I think from a customer service or response side, looking for like reviews, people leave
 your reviews on Google or on other platforms that are really good best practice with that
 stuff is the respond and give a response.
 You could use chat, you could draft up a really good response for you or a team member could
 do that.
 If you're getting a lot of them and that's something a team member spends a lot of time on, they
 could cut their time down drastically, leveraging it for that.
 Or even an example of a medical example where they gave doctors tablets with it on it and
 then they gave patients tablets or the patients got responses from the doctor and they were
 not as impressed with a doctor's response as they were with the response that they read
 the chat GPT or whatever tool they used gave.
 So the AI's response had better bedside manner and was more comforting to the patients than
 the doctor's responses and so not all of us are at high eyes and great communicators and stuff
 like that.
 For us who can't get a good or writing and stuff like that, it can give a really good response
 to somebody.
 Looking at it for things like that, don't respond to a bad review online immediately, give yourself
 a day but then hey this is what happened and give it the information and chat GPT or
 a cloud or whatever tool you're using.
 Ask it to give a caring professional response to this review and give it input from you
 and let it write that response and then review it and make sure it reads proper land stuff
 and put that in.
 It very well might be more compassionate and more customer friendly than you are and you're response
 to a negative review.
 So that's an example from a customer service engagement side that I kind of see that you know just
 like you were talking about for you know making it more fun or more compassionate or whatever
 just adjusting your tone and what you're putting out there and you get think about that you
 know hey this is what we want to do for this blog post or this social media post you know how do we
 make this fun or more engaging ask it that and have it give you input into it you know you can
 draft what you want to say up feed it in there and be like hey we've got this this is what we want
 to say but we want to say it in a friendleager way or a fun or way or a more compassionate way
 and it will take what you've created and adjust it and so you can use that for that type of engagement
 and to change stuff that you have already to make it more engaging.
 Yeah and I just love the again if we go back to that high-sea personality style right or even
 high-s personality style that may not be communicating the way they want to or they or maybe they
 are maybe they're communicating exactly the way they want to if you just loaded it up with your voice
 like you said you know put it on your phone say exactly the response that you want to have
 and then look at it in writing and then just ask it a few things that's the big key here and I want
 to pound this home because if like I did not look into AI at all I don't know how long we had you
 guys you know we had you booked for six months, eight months, something long a long time no one that
 you were going to come in and teach on AI and I'm like I'm not learning anything until Grant gets
 here because I know Grant knows what the heck you're talking about so I want to learn it from Grant
 and then when you get here and you start teaching this stuff I couldn't stay out none of us could
 everybody like us the clients everybody is just like we were stuck in AI and just asking things
 so like if you take your information and maybe you've got somebody who doesn't have the greatest
 you know bedside manner and they're loading up some information just voice it in there this is the
 response I want to give and then just say hey just this to be nicer you know maybe you want it adjusted to be
 sarcastic whatever it is but plug it in and just read it and see what you think and the reason why I'm
 saying this I'm not picking on the high sea I know how many high seas that will write something very
 factual and feel great about it they're like no it literally speaks to the facts but then when you
 adjust it for the high sea in a different tone they look at it and you know you're a very high sea they look
 at it and go oh okay why can't see that that makes sense that makes sense how that sounds nicer but when
 they're doing it when they're stuck in the factual mode you know that they're in that logistical aspect of it
 they're not thinking fun funny sweet nice kind they're thinking facts and so you know let's speak to the
 high D many times high D's unfortunately pride themselves on short answers it is ridiculous to be excited
 that you give a one word answer that is not something to be happy about high D's that's not a good
 that you know 95% of the time that's not okay you know sure there's there's a percentage of time
 where it's okay but you have to consider the person you're talking to and so many times the one word
 answer just confuses the living daylight out of somebody so if you need to give it answered us a buddy you
 know some let's say somebody sends you a question you know one of your team members send you a
 question plug the question in and go you know how do I give this type of answer and just you know super quick
 30 seconds boom you've got something send it you're done am I saying all that correctly is that
 all sound pretty darn accurate it does it does and going to that high C aspect of you know we want all the
 details you can take something and put it in there and be like hey can you analyze this and could you
 tell me if I missed anything could you fill it where else could I build upon this to make it more thorough
 and it will analyze whatever you put in there whether it's data and article on something a service
 or whatever it is and it will look for gaps and it will go through what it knows and it will expand what
 you've already created to fill in and make it even deeper and so for a high C like you're going to get
 in there and you can be like oh okay go more detail on this and then oh go into more detail on this and
 your one page document is now 20 pages long when you're done with it you might spend an hour or two
 in there playing with it but you're going to have the most detailed document at the end of the day possible
 which is such I'm so glad you brought this up because as we're talking about decency isn't
 a guess not a guess and of course this this also applies to iZ and s is but what you just said
 how many people you know for me this is what I do for a living so if I'm speaking to a high C
 I know I teach communication I teach personality styles I'm going to give as much information then I'm
 going to ask a ton of questions to make sure that I got all the information that this high C needs right
 but most people on the planet don't think that way what a great opportunity for you if you if you've
 done personality styles with your team folks if you haven't go to christlicker.com and go to the store
 and get this done get the video do it it changes everything our goal is to win with communication
 so if I'm communicating to a high C and I'm high D I S whatever I can plug the information in and I'll
 level what you just said analyze this go deeper you know what holes are missing all that kind of
 on stuff but if we go to the opposite side hey high C high S if you're communicating to an i or d
 take this information and bullet point it yeah I will put this in bullet points so I can give this
 and you could even do bullet points and sub bullet points you know so I can give this information to a
 high D you know I've got a buddy of mine who is like a 4,000 C he's a 99 C in a 99 D but he's just so
 technical and he's so so data driven and he gives me great like he'll send me an email and he's like okay
 here's the short version and here's the high C version and he will give me the summary up top and then he'll
 give me the 4 pages of information down below because he knows you know there are times that if he
 because he can give an incredible amount of information so all good stuff but it's a lot and he knows
 okay I can probably get christ to answer faster if I give him a sorry you know he's still gonna go
 through all the long form information but giving it to me that way you know and me I'm an 88 S I'm an 88 S
 and a 67 C I mean a 67 I like about a 50 D so for me that really speaks to me of going yes I can get the
 quick summary I know where you're going and then I know that if I don't have enough information I can jump
 down below and pull because he's got tons of it down below so I love that you just mentioned that
 because folks you should be thinking how do I communicate this to this team member to this leader
 to whoever the business owner in a way that's gonna speak in their personality style and crazy enough
 now you've got to check this stuff but I believe you can even put in the DIS or C hey communicate
 this to a high D personality style now keep in mind not everybody is just one personality style
 but you could put it in and it will actually adjust it to links and all that kind of stuff correct
 it does understand disc profiles so if you if you explain this is for a disc profile and this is what it is
 kind of give it that detail it will it can adjust based on that and that going to that comment that you
 made about you know taking it the other way and breaking it down into simpler terms it's really
 great at summarizing stuff and pulling out and kind of like creating a cheat sheet of information based
 on something I actually started using it to feed Google patents to that are very technical and put
 me to sleep and was like hey can you pull out the key points of this in action items from us and
 kind of highlight the things I need to know and it'll pull it out and then I tried it with more
 and depth things and it fed it like an 80 page document and was like hey can you summarize it give me just
 action items out of this and boom summary action items done and so very powerful that being able to
 go through and pull stuff like that so maybe in your business you have large sets of data or
 information booklets or whatever where you've got to go and pull something out of something and you
 could upload this and be like hey I'm looking for this information from this document oh that's on page 32
 of you know 400 or whatever and find that information and so you can kind of use it for that
 go into that research side of stuff it's really good at that. One of the things that you know I've
 talked about processes and I would really love to know other operational efficiencies that you can
 think of but we've had companies that have come in and they've got like a 400 page you know processes
 binder for people and it's like you've got to be kidding me that that's just insane and one of the
 things that we've talked about is is like there is so much information that people are confused on how to
 do your process so being able to take that process you can still keep a 400 page document if you
 want to if you absolutely have to but if you loaded that thing up and you said you know obviously it wasn't
 one process that's 400 pages but like all their different processes and you took one process out of time
 and loaded that up and said summarize this you know with steps of how to do it most important information
 all that kind of stuff and then read over it and then sat down what the people who are going to
 execute those processes and ask the question does this make sense and you always go make adjustments
 right if you get to like all this makes sense except for this step and this step great go back in this is where
 the prompts come in adjust this piece here do explain this out a little bit further here whatever it is
 but then instead of having a 400 page document maybe it's 40 right because it's operating in some
 reason stuff right I love articles when I come across somewhere at the beginning of the article it's got
 hey this is what we cover and then it's got like a one or two sentence summary of the key highlights from
 these section of the document where you can go and read it and then you're like oh I want to know
 more about this and you can go down to that section and so think of processes and SOPs in the same way
 you could break it down where somebody just needed to little guidance over view of you know what we do here
 you could have that summary at the top and then you could have that jump down be like oh go
 to section whatever for you know step by step technical details so you know user friendliness you know you can't
 you can't hand it everybody a 400 page process manual they're going to fall asleep and so you need to
 make it it's just like with what we do on the internet you know work at a marketing company it's all about
 the user it's getting the user to the site it's answering their question they're intent immediately so they
 get what they want maybe they stay longer and so think about think about whatever you're making for your
 business from a user standpoint is everybody again able to read this and comprehend it and understand
 the intent of the document and it might be different for different people and how they read and understand
 that intent high sea and a high eye are going to look at that completely different the sea is going to
 dig into all that content the eyes can be like huh it's like it's like that quick to where
 three sentence summary and key action items as a top fold and then go and all the detail and that's one
 way of breaking something complex like that down we've been playing with SOPs and processes and stuff a
 little bit and I like that idea even with the content for our clients we're looking at ways we can
 implement some of this stuff where it's you know we got to get the intent and we got to get you the
 answer immediately because that's what you're looking for you want that immediate answer there's
 this instinct gratification nowadays where they don't want to have to read through 30 pages of stuff to get
 to the recipe on a website you know it's like I don't care about the history of the recipe I don't care
 just what's the ingredients what are the steps I need to take and so well that's another friendly
 yeah that's another great point and just as I'm thinking about this folks if we want questions we
 want to know what you want to hear we want to know what you want to understand I'm sitting
 or thinking as we're talking through this and you're mentioning SOPs standard operating procedures you know
 these it's process this is the way we do something so even if you hear something like a you know
 SOP and it doesn't make sense just ask the question but anything and what we're talking about today
 podcast at christlickerto.com where you're like man we need this information I would love to know
 you know maybe we do another episode if people have a bunch of questions for you grant I would love
 to know what questions you guys have on AI because I feel like you know as we're talking through this like
 I remember sitting there and hearing this stuff going I can do what like I remember it being so daunting
 as we started and like within a couple of hours it was just like oh my gosh this is so easy so
 as people are listening to this my concern is that a bunch of people are out there going
 I don't even know what to do it's literally as easy as what we're saying jump in choppy cheap cheap
 I can't speak English so that's probably cheap cheap cheap cheap cheap cheap cheap just play around
 with stuff load something up research something you know just ask it what it can do in a certain area
 whatever it is and just get going but currently the uses are just endless you know if you wanted to
 write some copy for something it's just amazing how many different things is there other operational
 efficiencies that you could think of that we haven't covered I'm sure there is I'll stop on my
 head I would I would say go through your processes and operations and look at what you could improve
 you know do you have processes that take a lot of time do you have processes that aren't as easy
 to follow look for things and evaluate your business and what you're currently doing not what you could
 do but what you're already doing and look for ways that you could leverage this to save you time we
 have cut our content team we do order forms we do a content outline for our writer and so we give them
 an outline with hey this is what we want to cover these are the subsections that we need to cover
 this is what needs to go into them and that could take you know a team member anywhere from 30 minutes to
 60 minutes to go look and research and say okay this topic covers this this is what we need to cover to
 make sure it's thorough and in detail let's look at the competition make sure we're not missing anything
 you know our competitor covers too that we could add in there we've started using chat GPT to assist
 without lining and it's cut 15 to 20 minutes off of the time per outline step and so when you're looking
 at you know doing hundreds of pages a content a month cutting you know even 10 to 15 minutes on the
 low end off means we now have time to go work on more important things not the content's not important
 and this stuff isn't critical but this process is allowed us to become much more efficient
 and actually get more detailed outlines and now we're able to go work on other things for our clients
 well yeah I mean you know if I'm one of your clients I'm paying for you to market for me
 what I rather you be able to say 15 minutes and work on something else for me or what I rather you
 know I want you to do all of the heavy lifting on this thing no I want I want to get the most out of
 you I possibly can right and so just that thought of being and I remember you talked about the
 self that and you may not want to mention what it is but there was a piece that you had worked on that would normally
 take you like four hours and it just cut it down dramatically and allowed you to get on to other things
 as well so just that thought process of you know can't you know even I don't know if it would work but if you
 took your let's go back to the detail bay I've got somebody who's detailing a car and I write down
 the processes of how they're supposed to do it and I just loaded up and asked the question can you make this
 process faster if the answer is no the answer is no but what if it found two steps that it could
 adjust to pick up you know time on that team member well now you're picking up not only are you
 being able to get more done with the dollar you spend on that team member but you're also picking
 opportunity so they get something done faster and then they get to move on to the next paying thing that brings
 money in the door so just you know be wild with it just just think as whatever you possibly can
 chuck it in there and see what it can come up it's a risk free area to play in your your theorizing
 and ideating and stuff and here you're not actually going and okay we're going to do this process
 in our business right now and see if this works yeah you're you're working through it in like a
 playground time to scenario sandbox scenario where you can fine tune and come up with the process and then
 it's like okay hey this is legit and this works let's okay hey team let's review this and look through it
 okay let's walk through this does this if this works all right do we want to implement this yes
 implement there you go 15 minutes across the task that is done 100 times a month is a lot of time to
 do other productive things so powerful all right now the the tough question here what are some
 ethical considerations that small business leaders should be aware of when using AI and their operations
 particularly like in in data privacy or you know bias mitigation yeah so by default
 the model isn't biased but it's trained on content from the internet and as we all know content on
 the internet very much can be biased and so it's output can have bias in it so you have to be on the
 look out for that as a starting point you also have to you know we mentioned it a couple times you've got
 to review and QA in fact check everything this outputs because it can't hallucinate and make things up
 it also doesn't have data past April 2023 as of this recording that'll change but you want to review everything
 in QA everything you wouldn't there's been examples of people using this and letting
 I forget what publication it was but a major public journalist publication let two or three
 writers go and was using AI to replace them and they took the content and they published it it had
 misinformation and it in accurate facts and it they had to pull the content down and reevaluate the whole process
 and so be careful then they have to rehire back people there that was a there's another one where they
 let go their chat operators and replaced it with an AI chat bot and it started giving misinformation
 out they got them in trouble and they had to act that and rehire all their customer service people
 and so this is a tool to boost your team not to replace your team I think that's the biggest key here is
 there's a lot of headlines and a lot of information out there already on AI that is only part of the
 information being told and so you see all the headlines of AI's replacing people or AI's going to
 dominate and take over the world and all this stuff that's just not the case is not where this is at
 it's not that technology yet and so it's not going to replace the team member make it replace a task potentially
 and speed that team member up and let them work on more important things you is a business owner if you could
 save an hour or two a week using AI so you could do other business owner stuff would you not take advantage of that
 yeah but continuing on that ethical thing the other side of that is what you put into it and we need to
 be careful with this because right now the free and the paid version by default the information you put in
 is shared with the company and can be used in training the model and so if you don't go into
 settings and turn off allow my data to be used in training the model or whatever the setting is
 then your information is being put out there and could show up as a response potentially in this
 down the road now the other thing to that is when you turn that off you lose your chat history so
 you can turn it off for a chat session and then turn it back on for the next one but you you lose that now
 on that note though that data even when you get that turned off it still stored on their database is for
 30 days and that's for safety to make sure people aren't using it in a nothing but ways one of the
 big things they're worried about is copyright stuff you actually I've actually tried to get it to
 generate an image in the style of somebody and they've since put in blocks now where you can't reference
 a specific artist so it can't mimic their design styles and stuff like that because that's a copy right
 in friendiable thing and so they're adding guardrails and stuff and this is just in a couple of weeks since
 the retreat because prior to that you could ask it to write in anybody's persona or style or create
 images in this person's art style and it would do that and so that's a big thing they're working on
 is adding these guardrails to prevent misuse of it and to educate the public on what is right and wrong because
 not all of us are gonna really understand all of that. Yeah it comes to copyright stuff some of
 that gets pretty deep in in detail. The other side of misinformation is just misinformation.
 There's a lot of concern with the upcoming election and the amount of misinformation you could create
 was a tool like this. There's people creating thousands of pages and putting them putting websites up with
 thousands of pages and they're just crawling competitor sites and then saying hey, recreate this and
 you know very unethical just and it's nothing new this has been going on before it's just now it's a
 little bit easier basically. So there's always it comes down to that you know is this right or is this
 wrong kind of concept but that privacy point I think you know you don't want to put any PII information.
 So personal identifiable information. So your full name unless you're the face of a business in
 your full name and your phone number and email are on your bio page for contact information but
 if you've got a personal one you wouldn't want to put your personal phone number in there your personal
 email and your social security number medical information anything like that and from a business standpoint
 you'd be thinking about you know you don't want to put employees information like that anything that
 would be in HR item you want to avoid inputting that into the system financial information is another example
 you know you may not want to feed your financial information into the tool to analyze and give you insights
 others might not be so worried about that information so that that comes down to kind of your own personal
 you know concerns and ethical use of information. So but there's nothing stopping you from you know
 on the other side like you could put information in there and upload info on your employees or something
 but do you have permission to do that and stuff and so that's where that ethical kind of thing
 comes into play there are ways like if you got IT and stuff at your business you could get like access to the
 API and create your own kind of instance of chat GPT where it's more private and it's not the same set up
 they also are offering an enterprise model for larger companies and they're working on a business version
 that's supposed to be private and stuff for smaller businesses and stuff like that but that is not been
 released yet because one of the biggest concerns is you know what are you doing with the information I'm putting into here
 you know business you want to use it a lot but you don't want them taking all your information and you know that
 being shared with the world in your model. So if you don't yeah just to summarize if you don't want your
 information out there for other people to pull off of it then you go in and change the setting of you know
 don't save my chat or don't share my chat the key is is that when you're done with that chat the best thing to
 do would be to export that back into like a word doc you know you can so you can go into a session
 with your personal information that you've uploaded that's not going to go out for the world to use
 but you lose the chat when you're done so if you export it put in like a word doc close out that
 chat then you come back tomorrow you can re-upload the new document back in work on it again and that way
 you're not losing it but hopefully in the future we won't have to worry about that as what you're saying
 yeah with the business model we're hoping that that changes and we don't have to worry about that but yeah
 until then if you talk all that off and you do your session and then you copy all that and put it into
 a document to save for later you have that and you can even continue that conversation later so if you copy and
 paste all that into a document and now you don't have that chat session you can create a new one
 attach that file and be like hey I want to continue building off of the information in this document
 can you read and analyze this and let me know that you understand what's in it and it will respond
 with yes and then you can be okay this is what I want to do next and you can continue that conversation
 like that and keep an offline record of it yeah and then another piece that you mentioned there is just the
 I think there's you know there's three sides there's those people that are out there that are going to be
 unethical that are they're already trying to use this in ways to gain an advantage make money do whatever
 there's folks that are oblivious they don't know they don't have a clue that they're doing anything wrong
 they're just out there trying to figure out how to use this thing and then there's probably folks that
 are thinking that what they're doing is okay that may be crawling somebody else's site and pulling
 information and just you know going surely this is fine because it's public stuff either way what you
 want as a business leader or a business owner is you want to make sure that you understand the processes
 of what your team members are doing you want to make sure that you don't have the person who's just
 blatantly going out and stealing stuff but you also want to make sure you don't have the innocent
 person who doesn't understand that it's bad or wrong to go out and pull information from somebody else's
 stuff or whatever so just make sure that you've got clear processes on how you're going to use this
 inside of your business inside of your team because the last thing you want to do is be doing something
 unethical that's going to come back and just destroy you. We're working on kind of that usage privacy
 policy and usage of AI right now that's the big thing I'm working on because you know we've got quite
 a few employees and then also looking at the training side of it of we want the team to use this and use these
 tools we want to become more efficient with them but some people are comfortable for some people
 are afraid of it outright scares them because you know always this thing going to take my job and
 stuff like that and so training your team and teaching them you know hey we want you to use this
 we want it to boost you and your productivity and capability it's not to replace you and you know here's
 how you use it this is the way to use it you know these are examples of the right and the wrong
 having training and you really do need to start at that base level of the foundations and the basics
 because not everybody is going to be on the same level some people are going to be all about it all
 trying to do all kinds of crazy things and other people are going to be hesitant to type that
 first question into it. Yeah definitely so what are some you know ways to measure return on investment
 when it comes to like an AI initiative what are some like key performance indicators? I think time
 is the biggest one you know as you're doing this it's you know that you mentioned earlier the thing
 I might not want to talk about but it was an audit that I did for a website to analyze the content on it
 and look for gaps in where we could fill in the content and normally that would take you know two
 three four five hours to go do the entire process all the way through and then analyze and pull the data
 and stuff and it literally did it in like 15 20 minutes I then spent the next half an hour to hour
 kind of revealing it and actually spot checking it making sure what it gave me was accurate and at
 the end of the day it was accurate and I was like well I just saved three hours time today what's next and so
 you know that's huge for me you know I've got a busy schedule and so if I could take something and
 you know leverage AI to analyze the data quicker than I would going in using spreadsheet
 calculations and stuff and you know reviewing things then I've got lots of other important things to
 work on and so that's huge ROI when you're looking at the labor saved the time saved that's the biggest
 way to really view this and analyze this. The only other thing I could think of would be looking at like
 okay we used it to do this what's the impact of this you know did we edit our sales copy using the
 tool and what was the impact of that sales page afterwards did it increase I would see more sales you
 look at that kind of output and impact of it but at the at the core it's what we've been looking at is how
 do we save the team time how do we make them more efficient how do we free them up on the the small
 tedious tasks that are time consuming but required so they can work on more bigger important things
 and at the base that's time yeah and I think Erin mentioned it multiple times Erin was that the
 at the event where he said hey listen don't be you know if you're a team member don't be afraid of this
 thing like you mentioned don't be afraid of this thing replacing you make yourself more valuable to the
 company don't be afraid of you know well if I shave off a couple hours of my day then what do I do next
 oh my trust me there's more to do there's more that you know you could be utilized it but if you
 make yourself more valuable to me as a business owner if I see that you're knocking things out and they're great
 you've you've done your QA you know you've saved some time and I can move on to bigger things with you
 that makes you more valuable to me you know but at the same time as a business leader or business owner
 you need to be stepping up going let me learn this thing or or find somebody you know Erin West is our
 our guy and our business who is just really going ballistic on all of this setting up stuff for our company
 you know helping other team members to be using AI and is going to be coming up with policies and
 teachings and all that kind of stuff you and Erin have worked together I know he's you know
 rakture brand like crazy as well but we have somebody who just loves this and is setting it up for our
 business right so find somebody or be that person you know that gets in and starts to discover
 how can I utilize this with my team I was sitting there you know at our office at our events pace as
 we were going through this and sending stuff back to our farm. Coming hey look what I just did go
 go use this you know get together with Dakota and find a way to go use this for social media or
 something like that just you know looking at a different business and sending stuff to other team
 members and going hey you guys jump in and use this figure this out make this happen here stuff that you
 can do so you know as a leader as a business owner as a team member I don't care what your role is you know
 parents how can you start utilizing this again be very super cautious but how do you can you use this to
 help your kids out so this question I don't know if this question's got a good answer to it but are
 their trends that are showing up in the future that leaders need to keep an eye on in the next coming year so
 change. This is changing so fast it's unlike anything that has come before it you think the internet
 and mobile and computers and you know all the major technological advancements this is come and hit
 advanced and changed so fast this year alone it is it is breathtaking and neck breaking at the same time
 it's fast a week in AI is like three months in the business world when you think about information
 and change it is just constant like we did the we did the retreat and the following week they did
 their dev day and everything changed they added all kinds of stuff they put it all into a single chat session
 and like everything just changed overnight like that and leading up to the retreat I had to redo
 a video walk through I think like five six times because it kept changing and the three months
 leading up to the retreat when I was trying to record the video there's new tools coming out every day
 the big players are coming out with new things we still haven't seen Google's final version of
 whatever they're releasing they've been releasing bits and pieces of different things and giving us little
 pieces of what they've got but my expectations are when they finally come out and release their equivalent
 to chat GPT which I believe they're calling Gemini which is a multimodal thing that will be able to do
 data analysis and image generation and content generation and stuff I think everything's going to yet
 again change overnight you know they could very well change the world by changing how search results work
 with AI responses it's that's the only trend I could I could put you on to is that this stuff is
 advancing and changing rapidly if you thought something and January was cool now it's mind blowing like
 just the changes and advancements to any little aspect of it I mean in January you could put in and
 I think the context window of what chat GPT could handle was like I want to say it was 16,000 or 32,000
 words or something like that roughly and now you can basically put a 300 it's got the context window of
 understanding of the equivalent of a 300 page novel that you're going to have conversation with it about and so
 it's massively the capacity has grown tremendously the databases I mean GPT 3.5 was what was released
 initially and then GPT 4 came out and the example there was for the legal industry and this works
 with like I think it was biology or something it could pass the bar exam it was in the 10th
 percentile with 3.5 when chat GPT 4 came out that bigger model it was passing it in like 90th
 percentile and so it was the same with a lot of other educational areas the wealth of knowledge and
 understanding was just massive I don't have the specific calculations but it 3.5 to 4 would be like
 putting a marble next to a beach ball like in size of of information within it and I know there's been
 talk of improving that and you know is there gonna be a GPT 5 that's even bigger or you know can we
 break this down and fine tune it and so you know we still don't know what this tool is fully capable of
 like every week we're like oh hey we can do this with this like the last week I didn't know I could do
 that with it like there's no single instruction manual to it it's get in there and try it see what it
 can do but yeah it is just changing so fast and there's so many I think the one okay so here's a trend
 you're gonna see more of over the next year regulation yeah it's a big topic the ethical concerns
 and misuse of these tools and the access that is gonna be given to these tools is a huge concern
 and there's regulation is a big thing amongst the planet right now they just did a big meeting over in
 Europe with representatives from all the major countries all the major AI companies Amazon Facebook
 Chatchy PT Microsoft Cloud they were all there Google and so there's gonna be regulation I know here
 in California the governor just passed the thing to get government approved state approved training for AI
 for the workforce and for the general public they should have reliable vetted training on this stuff
 Biden passed I believe in executive order a couple weeks ago to implement regulation and monitor
 and do all that stuff so it is coming and they're doing more and more and I think that's gonna be
 a trend we're gonna see more guidance and more guardrails and safety measures get put in place to prevent that
 unethical use to prevent the misinformation type stuff which is good I mean you know yeah we do need that
 I mean it does have such bad potential I mean there's such great stuff for all the the ethical people out there
 who want to use this but then there's a whole bunch of crappy stuff too are there any good case studies
 or examples of case studies of small businesses that have successfully implemented like an AI solution
 I don't have anything off the top of my head we talked about a few things like the content outlines
 saving 15 20 minutes you know doing you know building out SOPs and processes and evaluating them and
 stuff like that a lot of the case studies and stuff out there right now are enterprise level stuff
 it's where they're implementing their own AI systems and stuff like that and that technology is just
 out of our reach a single GPU a single graphics card to process AI actions and stuff is like $10,000
 plus dollars and so for a small business is it's just not feasible to bring and build your own
 in-house AI that can do stuff and that's why you know chat GPT and cloud and these these tools like this
 it opens that up to us you know we don't have to build that infrastructure and stuff so getting in there and
 using it I think looking in doing searches for advanced data analysis with chat GPT you'll see
 lots of use cases and stuff in case studies of training on how to use that I don't remember the
 the course but Coursera's got a course on advanced data analysis with chat GPT that's really great
 if you want to learn how to use it like that it's it's still early I mean this is this is we're still in the
 very early infancy stages of this stuff it's been around forever though so you know don't don't think this is
 like brand new it's just we now have easy access to this AI has been around since the 50s when the
 touring test was developed and then you know it's in your car now for safety measures the first
 driver's as car was not in the 2000s it was 80 something if I remember correct and so
 it was in the Xbox in 2005 or 2010 when you get connects and it follows your body motions and
 translates that and makes it into in game motions and stuff like that so it's not a brand new
 technology it's just it's now accessible to the general public and I think that's that's huge for
 small business because you have access to something that large companies have had access to and have
 been playing with these enterprise companies have this stuff built into the foundations now a lot of them don't
 I was at a conference in August and a lot of them are just like how do we do this you know so
 everybody's in the same boat just some degree there's some companies that are far ahead and fully AI
 on board with everything but for the most part the general public and business as a whole
 word at this point of what can we do with it how do we do it you know what how do we learn
 and so you're not you're not behind the curve right now get in there and play with it figure out
 what time you're advanced technology will advance so what are some common challenges or pitfalls that
 small businesses need to be aware of when adopting AI and how can they avoid them
 I think we talked about a few of them you know the the fact that can hallucinate the fact that you
 have to keep it so kind of what you mean by hallucinate is sometimes so it's it doesn't like
 holes and so if it doesn't have information on something it can create information is basically what
 you're saying yeah previous to April 23 if you asked that a question and the information was
 literally only in May of 23 then it's going to create something that's what you mean by hallucination
 yes what'll happen is if it's past it's cut off point it's got this capacity to hallucinate and
 just straight make something up the other option that you'll get is it won't just make something up and
 it'll say hey I don't have this information my model cuts off this is past my date now with
 Jackie BT you do have the ability to be like okay can you search the internet for current information on
 this topic oh well and so with the new model that's all built in it's not a separate thing and so
 you can search for current news and it basically goes and does a search for whatever the topic is
 and pulls information from the first couple websites so again going back to biases and in a correct
 information in fact checking you know this isn't going to replace your team member concept it's going to
 boost them you still need that expert you still need that team member who understands this topic and
 what they're doing because they've got to go back and QA and review this and they know this stuff and
 so they can do the fact checking and know where to look to find this stuff if you think that it can
 do what your team member doesn't you're going to let them go well if you don't know what they were
 doing you don't have their knowledge and you now have to go QA this how's that going to go right and so
 that would be that would be you know the biggest thing is you know a best practice is fact check
 and QA everything that comes through grammar and spelling and facts and stats and all of that
 is a best practice it's a must yeah so that's just thinking literally all right is there anything
 future wise future outlook wise for AI and small businesses that people can prepare for I know
 like you answered this decently but I don't know if there's anything that we're missing
 changes obviously the biggest thing but is there anything else that's coming in the future that we can
 prepare for the AI itself training learn you have to learn this stuff you're gonna you can't ignore it don't
 ignore it don't think it's a passing fate sad because it's not like I just mentioned the AI the first
 mission of it's back in 1950 and there's been tons and tons of stuff since then and so it's here it's
 not going anywhere this isn't a new new thing that's gonna hit the media and be all big and popular and
 just appear in a month or two it's it's not going anywhere and so training not just you as the
 business owner but your staff and employees like you need to learn this stuff because it's not going anywhere
 they expected to impact a lot of areas over the coming next five years you can see a lot of
 change a lot of change and so get in there find some courses for Sarah's got courses open AI who is the
 creator chat GPT has a course on chat GPT and how to use it that is probably a good starting point for
 somebody let's not very experienced you know I mentioned that advanced data analysis using chat GPT one
 for more and depth usage of it I think that's the biggest thing training and education I remember I think it's
 2001 when we were moving to putting up a website to sell event tickets and stuff like that and I remember
 back then going guys this isn't gonna work you know we got what is it 14k a well dial up or something
 like that at the time but I remember thinking nobody's gonna we need to stick with the phones people are
 gonna call in this is and I came from each trade so I came from each trade in the in the early 90s
 you know when we moved to phone trades and all that kind of stuff and that was just so far out there
 but I remember thinking but the internet's so stink and slow nobody's gonna use this this is going to
 be a waste of time and we had a bunch of us you were involved a bunch of us that were setting around
 just talking about things that we all back in those days went this is it gonna happen what you just said is
 so powerful for everybody listening this is not going away this is only gonna advance if you are not
 getting on board with this if you're not you know this is one of those things and I even hate that
 I waited until you came and taught this but I trust you and so I wanted the information from you but still
 it's like well that's six months we lost you know out on that we could have at least been playing with it
 and testing it so folks you got to understand just jump in this is all you gotta do you know just jump in
 and play with it and see what happens and I think what you will discover is that this is going to be a
 fantastic tool for you, your team, your company, your family to use to advance what you're doing.
 Last thing here and we talked about your your fun new title at the beginning of next level prompt
 engineer this is actually an important piece to be where you are understanding what you understand
 is actually very important piece explain why prompts or prompting is so important to AI.
 It's a new thing and so communicating with this is like communicating with a small child
 you have to explain things and make sure it understands things and the way you talk to it and the way
 you ask it to respond all impacts it there's actually a fun concept that if you're polite to it it
 is better responses because you treat it like you're talking to an assistant or another person you know
 it's a treat it like you're talking to another human being and be polite don't be rude because
 it could then take and put subtle things in there based on how you're talking with it
 but understanding the prompting and getting more into depth and taking some training on it will give you
 more advanced ways of communicating with it ways of asking it to do things to perform actions
 the easiest thing to start with is don't ask it to do too much
 treat it like a small child and you'll be you'll be good to start with and then if you want to get
 more advanced go look up prompting training and stuff there's a website that's got free resources on it there's
 tons of courses out there there's the one I took and it's that idea that you wouldn't be a high
 sea and unload three pages worth information on a three year old you would give them a sentence
 make sure they understood it and then build on that when you break complex topics up and have that
 conversation you get more detailed results because what I've found is when you communicate with it
 and you give it a lot it tries to respond to a lot and so it doesn't go into depth fun a lot
 and so you get a slightly more general response but if you took that and you broke it up into
 dozen different pieces and you asked for each one individually your one page of information that it
 gives you doing it all at once is now going to turn into four five pages of information
 and so you just get far more detail and so the ability to have that conversation with it you know
 if you give it a very basic generic request it's going to give you a quick generic response if you add
 detail into there like you know hey I need a blog post on you know detailing cars okay I'm going
 to give you a blog post not detailing cars if okay I need a blog post not detailing
 collectable classic cars from the 50s now it's going to get a little more detail and it's going to go
 on a more detail because you've given it just a little bit of extra information and that's going to go
 the same when you're doing stuff you know hey this is my process well if you just give it a one
 sense and staying about your process it's going to build on that and give you your response but if you
 fed it your page is long process and said this is my process can you analyze it and tell me the
 holes in it now it's going to give you more and so that idea of it's an assistant it really is it's a
 data scientist it's a writer it's a it's a biologist it's an astronomer it's a physicist it's
 whatever you are it can be your counterpart it has access to a massive database of information
 and so you can you can role play and bounce concepts and conversations you know hey I've got this tough
 customer that I'm trying to respond to this is what they said this is my response oh well I might
 respond this way so sales training customer communication training whatever you know for lawyers it was
 you know bounce your arguments and rebuttals you know you could you could role play back and forth with it
 to come up with that best response so much good information gosh it's so good such a great process so
 here's the deal are you tired of trying day in and day out to make your business successful
 and feeling like it's growth and survival rests on your shoulders do you wish you had team members
 who worked better together and took more ownership and responsibility for their jobs do you
 question if you're focusing on the right things to grow your business do you wish that AI would just come
 and solve everything for you then our next level leadership live event is the place to take a step
 back and get perspective what if I told you the key to solving your biggest work problems and
 growing your business in a better way is hiding and playing sight every day and they have names
 personality styles and gifts and talents that's right it's your people it's your team the question is this
 what's holding them back solving this problem is the job of great leaders so join us for the
 three day next of a leadership live event where hundreds of business leaders have navigated the
 challenges of leadership together you'll walk away with practical learnings and tools and strategies
 to unlock the hidden potential inside your team and right now you save $500 off every ticket you buy
 but that ends very soon so go to christicardle.com/events right now to register that's christicardle.com/events
 and save hundreds off your ticket purchase folks we will see you in April and Grant thank you so
 stinkin much brother this is so good grant brought thank you for being on the show thank you for sharing
 all of this thank you for having me man it's so good and folks I am dead serious podcast at christicardle.com
 send us your questions if you got more stuff you want no more stuff then we will get those questions answered
 but i think my my favorite comment from Grant today is this ain't going away what he said
 to a little bit more eloquently than that but this isn't going away folks jump in get on board get this
 work and get this operating for you and your team but folks that's all the time we have for today
 I hope this information has helped you as always you want you to take this information change your
 leadership change your business change your life and join us on the next episode
 (upbeat music)
 [BLANK_AUDIO]