 A friend in need is a friend indeed, but how far is too far?
 How can you offer help while maintaining your common objectivity in their crisis?
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover
 that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 A couple episodes back, we talked about leaders cultivating empathy, not just sympathy,
 towards others.
 Understanding what someone else is experiencing can help us to understand the behavior,
 can help us to be patient and offer grace, can help us to lead them to success, coach
 them through crises, and perhaps even help them period.
 But first we have to understand, right?
 A lot of leaders really love other people, which makes them great leaders.
 And genuinely, want what's best for them.
 It's great to have compassion for people who are struggling.
 I can tell you certain personality styles, certain values, motivators, as we call them
 as well.
 To lean in that direction, your high S is always going to care greatly about people and
 love people really well.
 High eyes are very people focused.
 Your high altruist is somebody who really cares about not only developing others but removing
 their pain.
 High politicals are going to be concerned about helping people become better.
 There's all different types of personality styles and values that can lean in that direction.
 Doesn't matter which style you are.
 People can care and love deeply about other people.
 Our goal today is talking about how it's the lifeguard example.
 If you're a lifeguard and somebody is drowning, how do you make sure that you contain the
 person to get them to safety instead of being druged down and drowned with them in the
 same process?
 So if you want to learn more about personality styles and motivators, then head on over to
kirtle.com/store to find information on the disk and values assessment.
 If you've not done it, get it done.
 People, this is huge in your communication.
 Now, we're not just talking about leaders today, right?
 I mean, we're talking about people in general, but obviously this is something that is so
 important for leaders to understand.
 We're talking about pretty normal human experience sooner or later.
 Someone around you will struggle or go through a crisis.
 It's bound to happen whether it's a friend and neighbor, a family member, a colleague,
 a coworker, somebody you lead, somebody's going to experience going through a crisis.
 We want to kind of try and figure out what can we do, how can we help out and how do we
 maintain health in the process?
 So let's take a look inside first.
 So no matter your personality styling, you may find yourself on different points of the spectrum,
 depending on the person and depending upon their problem.
 So let's look at some aspects.
 Number one, how can I be empathetic and compassionate just in general?
 In other words, when I don't feel anything at all, what does that like?
 If you can just imagine, you don't have to have experienced it, you don't have to go to the
 crisis.
 If you haven't gone through a crisis, you probably are going to at some point.
 No one is immune to suffering in pain.
 But step back and thank for a second about someone who was there for you.
 When you needed a friend, be that friend for other people.
 Step into the messiness.
 What does it look like to have gone through something even if it wasn't a crisis?
 Maybe it's just a difficulty.
 Maybe it was just a hard time.
 Did you have anybody that was there and stood by you well?
 What does it mean to be empathetic?
 Put yourself in their shoes.
 Even though you're not and you've not gone through it, right?
 Could you imagine what they must be going through?
 One of the worst things is that we try and give advice to people going through something
 difficult and we've never been there ourselves.
 It just doesn't sound genuine and it sounds like we don't really care, right?
 But if you can stop for a moment and just imagine what it must be like to be in their shoes
 right now, what would you want somebody to say to you?
 How would you want them to act?
 Number two, how do I empathize with someone who's pain I've never experienced?
 In other words, I don't get why that's so painful.
 That's very understandable.
 There are people that experience pain in situations that you might not.
 I've had many conversations with people that are like, I don't even think that that's real.
 That can't possibly be real because that's ridiculous or that shouldn't be so painful
 or so here's what you need to understand.
 With victim mentality aside, with enablement aside, entitlement aside, okay, it's very likely
 that somebody's going to experience pain in a situation that you wouldn't.
 You wouldn't normally feel pain in that situation.
 So what does that look like?
 How do you empathize with somebody?
 It's something you have to ask yourself a question again, gain some perspective, ask them,
 what are you feeling right now?
 How did you receive what he or she just did?
 How are you processing or dealing with what's happened?
 Obviously, you don't want to come off as somebody who's just interviewing your interior
 getting the daylights out of somebody, but trying gain some perspective, you might gain some
 insight as to why it's so painful to that person and it might help you to see, oh, well,
 now that I know that, yeah, I can totally get why that was painful, right?
 So a big part of empathizing with somebody who's pain is not something you actually feel or
 feel like you would experience gain perspective, gain quality perspective and see what
 they're going through.
 Number three, I sometimes lose patience or get frustrated with someone who's struggling, what does
 that say about me?
 It says that your terrible human being, no, that is not, that does not mean that your
 terrible human being.
 It is understandable that sometimes it can be frustrating, right?
 In other words, their struggle is getting on my nerves.
 Why is somebody dealing with that for so long?
 Completely understandable.
 Again, if we think of victim mentality, we're probably seeing way more struggle than we should
 see.
 If we're seeing somebody who's really seeking affirmation and worth from you in the situation, the
 struggle is probably way more than they need.
 I had a team member years ago, I've got decades ago, that I would help this person out, help
 them out, they're going through a horrible situation in their personal life, legitimate situation.
 But what they recognize is that I kept helping.
 And so after the legitimate situation, there was something else.
 And then there was something else.
 And then there were something else.
 So there are people who some pains take longer.
 I have gone through some very traumatic things in my life that took way longer.
 And I had great people in my corner saying, dude, you got a lot of go.
 You got to get over this.
 And then most stuff I get over immediately are very quickly, right?
 It just kind of depends.
 So keep in mind, if the assumption is, this is the legitimate pain.
 Okay, guess what?
 They're human, right?
 I'll have limits to our own struggles.
 It could say that they're identifying too much with their pain.
 Maybe it reminds you of your own pain that you've been through.
 And maybe the struggle for you is that you don't want to deal with it.
 Maybe it's legit.
 How much they're going through.
 And it's something you don't want to deal with.
 Or maybe it's just something that you have greater limits on than they do, right?
 It might mean that you're identifying too little with it that you're not actually empathizing
 what they're going through.
 I mean that you've tried to help but been refused.
 So it's time to step back.
 So if it's you, then once again, how would you want to be treated?
 How would you want somebody to help you?
 What would you want empathy to look like with you?
 If maybe you're not connecting with it, maybe you're not identifying too little with it.
 And again, we're not pleased.
 I'm not saying I need you to go sit in somebody's pain.
 But it's not what I'm saying at all.
 What I'm saying is how do you help somebody?
 Then perspective gathering.
 What if you've been refused?
 This is a tough one, especially for people, please.
 My whole life has been spent trying to help people overcome and remove pain from their lives.
 That's been my whole life.
 And I have been rejected many times in the process.
 Here's the key. You've got to understand you do not have to be emotionally hand-cuffed
 to somebody else's negative situation, painful, difficult situation.
 If you become emotionally hand-cuffed to it, then you are going to be experiencing it.
 And when they reject you in the process or refuse your help in the process, then it's going
 to hurt you because you put yourself in a bad situation.
 I've done that 17,000 times until God pointed out my early 20s to stop.
 Quit doing that.
 I don't have to allow it to hurt me.
 I can still help and if somebody doesn't want the help, I don't lose worth.
 My worth is not tied up in that move on.
 So that last point can sometimes be the trickiest.
 It's the one about knowing when to stop helping.
 If the help isn't helping, if you're not getting through if somebody's rejecting you or if somebody
 is loving your help and just keeps sucking you in, then you've got to understand it's time
 for healthy boundaries.
 So it's important to recognize when it helps actually isn't helping.
 Now for the obvious, before we get into the nitty-gritty of all of this, let's deal with some
 obvious things first.
 The Pocker-deers considered to be the father of modern medicine said before you heal someone
 ask him if he's willing to give up the things that make him sick.
 Man, that is such a powerful, powerful statement.
 Before you heal someone, ask him if they're willing to give up the things that make him sick,
 I cannot tell you how many people I have tried to help that are not willing to give up the
 things that have made them sick.
 greedy people who refuse to recognize greed, unhealthy eating people that don't care how bad
 and how sick their bodies get because the food is an emotional numbing for them.
 If someone wants to stay lost, then no matter what you do, you can't help them to find
 their way.
 Someone doesn't want help.
 Then there's no way you can help them.
 I am sorry for all of you high altruists out there who are like, "Yes, I can.
 I can help all you high S. is, no I can.
 No you can't."
 Somebody has to want help.
 Somebody very close to me that I have known my whole life and that has struggled with
 alcoholism in and out of programs.
 I remember that person one time saying to me, "It doesn't matter if you don't want to
 be in the program because it just means that you're waiting the program out in the moment
 you walk out the door, you go back to the very thing that puts you in the program the first
 place."
 "Yes!"
 It's like one of those things that when I heard I'm like, "But why?
 Why would you choose that?"
 Again, desire is the most important thing.
 If they don't want help, it doesn't matter.
 You can't help.
 But what if they're truly addicted, listen to me, everybody can overcome addiction, every
 body.
 If they want it, bad enough.
 If they desire it.
 So what are someone refuses to accept and put in the practice the very counsel that they
 receive?
 Well, what can you do about that?
 Every single time somebody goes to your next level of life, their strap planner, whatever we're
 doing, we help them to understand we've got new to greater perspective what you do with
 it is up to you.
 If you choose to not go and do this stuff, you can't blame us that it didn't work.
 But if you choose to go and do it, I promise you.
 It'll work.
 It'll work.
 We've discovered all of this amazing perspective.
 It's up to you.
 We can't go with you and make you do it.
 You have to choose to do it yourself.
 And either way, you get it.
 You understand what I'm talking about.
 Your efforts are limited by what they can receive.
 There's an old saying that you can lead a horse to water.
 But you can't make them drink.
 We all get that.
 They could be dying of thirst, right next to a fresh water stream.
 And no matter what you do, there's nothing you can do.
 You can't make them drink.
 So listen to me.
 When I say feelings are fickle that come and go, if someone stays in a motion, then it's
 there decision to do so.
 Our mission is guiding individuals and organizations to greater perspective.
 We've been told, for 10 straight years, you've changed my life.
 I hope we helped you get to the best perspective, then you made the decision to go do something
 about it.
 So that said, let's change the analogy around a bit.
 Now I've never been a life card, but I understand there's a simple rule of thumb when trying
 to help someone who's drowning.
 The number one rule of thumb is avoid it drowning yourself.
 You kid about save somebody from drowning if you get drowned in the process.
 I mean, you're in no condition to help someone else.
 If you're unconscious or dead, it doesn't matter.
 This is where things get messy because our tendency is to lose objectivity when being
 empathetic.
 It can be tough to know where the boundaries are and when to say when, especially I'm going
 to go back to my high altruous again because you have convinced yourself and my high S as you've
 got this.
 Listen, it's not you.
 You got to know when to say when.
 So don't get stuck.
 With them pulling you down, don't get sucked into the undertow of their problems.
 No when to stop.
 If you're trying to help someone and it's not working, then stop trying to help them.
 You might actually be making things worse, believe it or not.
 No one to step back from the situation.
 That's one of the toughest things of helping people to understand.
 There's many times that you continue to go in and try and help somebody is actually making
 it worse because you're enabling them to stay stuck in the problem.
 One of the most difficult things for me to do in life.
 This is what I do for a living.
 It's what I do for living decades.
 I've been helping people to overcome and get better and become stronger and put in better
 plans.
 One of the toughest things is when I recognize I actually need to back away so that you get more
 pain so that you do something about it.
 That's a that's the top one.
 But I have recognized when my help was making things worse because I was enabling somebody in
 the situation.
 If someone is sinking and they have their hands around your neck, you are not obligated to
 drown with them.
 This can be a really, really difficult concept for people to accept.
 So back to that lifeguard analogy.
 Lifeguard's a taught that when approaching someone in the water who is drowning, they must approach
 the person feet first.
 It's a defense of posture.
 It tests the situation a bit.
 They'll also approach the drowning person from behind.
 So it's not to get hit in the face or even worse.
 The bottom line is if it comes down to either one, the drowning person dies or two,
 we both drown together.
 Well, then it has to be that they drown and not us together.
 That's just plain wisdom.
 It's not cruelty.
 It's self-protection.
 But for some people that can be very difficult to accept.
 Now keep in mind, we're not talking about a situation where you could really help them and
 they are so out of control that they can't help themselves.
 That's not what we're talking about.
 We're talking about a person who, if they are not going to receive help, if they're going to
 battle help, if they're going to pull you down with them, put some healthy boundaries and
 place back up.
 Back up, right?
 If you're offering a hand to help and someone's not taking it, then you have to stop offering.
 So think about the butterfly story.
 You remember the story about the man who rescued the caterpillar from a cocoon before
 transformation into a butterfly had taken place while moved by compassion to help.
 The poor caterpillar and not wanting to see it struggle inside of its cocoon, he cut it open,
 freeing the butterfly from its cage.
 What he didn't understand, whoever was that the cage its cocoon was the very context of
 transformation here.
 Actually, preparing it to emerge as a fully functional butterfly.
 Sadly, the caterpillar/buttified didn't survive as it was not fully transformed from
 its suffering.
 Folks, you and anybody you're trying to help, you need to recognize pain is so often a part of
 the transformation.
 Pain and suffering and struggle is so often the very thing that helps somebody become better.
 If you remember, and listen, again, I have done this for decades, it's what I do for
 living.
 It is something I had to learn early on.
 If you remove them from their painful situation and you don't allow them to learn and struggle
 through and work through it and put healthy things in place, then you just might actually
 be causing them more pain.
 The lifeless in is that some struggles are there for reason, God's very aware of it.
 Many times he's preparing us for our next season.
 Everything I teach comes from corrupt that I've experienced and praise God have learned how
 to fix it and do something about it.
 I've had 17 bajillion failures in my life and praise God has shown us how to get through
 stuff and fix things.
 So maybe you're in the middle of a struggle yourself.
 It doesn't mean that you can't get help if you really want.
 But here's the deal, nobody can do it for you, as I do my air quotes.
 You're going to have to grow no matter what, that's for sure you have to grow.
 But our next level of life event may be the catalyst you need to find the growth in freedom
 you've been looking for.
 So many people have experienced that.
 So many people have had that transformation, have learned about that.
 The struggles and how to overcome the struggles but how to use them and grow from them.
 So if that is for you, which it's for everybody, trust me, go to crsacrido.com/nextlevellife
 for more information.
 If there's anything you walk away from today, the most important thing I want you to get out
 of this, transformation is a process.
 Whether you're trying to help or you're the one who's needing help and we all need help,
 transforming, right?
 You can get unstuck and move forward.
 I promise you that.
 So get unstuck.
 Let us help you.
 We would be glad to help you.
 We would be glad to help you go through this process.
 But the thing you need to understand, whether you are the person stuck or the person trying
 to help somebody get unstuck, transformation, struggle are necessary for great growth in life.
 You learn way more from coming out of a struggle than not having a struggle whatsoever.
 Folks, that's all the time that we have for today.
 I really hope this information has helped you.
 You know plenty of people that need to hear this.
 Help us to reach them, share this episode, like it, write a comment.
 But send this to people that need to hear this today.
 And if that's you, you might want to go through this a couple more times and just really listen
 through this and really listen to this and just follow these steps, making sure that you're
 doing things in a very healthy way.
 Well, as always, we love you guys.
 We appreciate you or so glad that you're here.
 This is why we do what we do.
 Take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and
 join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]