 What rightly relating to time and money will do for you?
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks, I hope you're having a fabulous day, wherever you are.
 Today we are talking about relationships, time and money.
 And these are probably the three greatest personal assets that you'll ever have
 in the privilege and responsibility of managing.
 We don't worship nor do we get worth from these things.
 And you know, you've heard me say this many times before.
 We shouldn't be getting our worth from people.
 We should be getting it from God, but I will tell you that the bulk of your worth
 should come from the King of the universe.
 That's where you should be learning what he says about you.
 If you are spending plenty of time in his word, you will find exactly how he feels
 about you and you will find that your worth is not in money.
 It's not in things.
 It's not even in the time that you spend here.
 Part of it does come from relationships.
 Obviously, I gain a portion of worth from being a husband, a father.
 You know, but it's considerably smaller than the worth I get from God.
 So let's just have that caveat in there.
 Here's a deal.
 We've got to steward all of them well.
 And if we don't, there will be consequences when we don't manage them well, we inevitably
 encounter difficulty in paying in our life.
 I don't think there's anybody listening to the show who doesn't agree with that, who can't
 say that they have experience.
 And I know we have a lot of our listeners, kids that are listening to the show.
 And so maybe this is a great time to kind of teach them some of the examples of your mistakes,
 by not handling those well, right?
 But everybody will come to a place of understanding that if you don't manage relationships
 well, time well, our money well, that it's eventually going to lead to some level of pain.
 That's why we talk so much about healthy relationships.
 Like, you know, the lies, the control, the conflict, setting healthy boundaries, root system
 responses, not setting somebody else's reality, all those types of things.
 But what about having a healthy relationship with time and money?
 Why is that important?
 Now, we'll tell you as we go through this episode, I'm going to bring a whole lot of God
 into this, a whole lot of scripture and stuff into this because I need you to see something.
 And this is this is funny how I will always be the guy who will never appeal to the masses
 because I don't throw out a message that says, hey, go spend your whole life making as much
 money as you possibly can because after you do that, you're going to find yourself being
 happy.
 It's not true.
 It's just not.
 I will teach you the great values in life that I have learned and the great values of God and how
 making as much money as you possibly can is never going to make you happy.
 Now, there is nothing wrong with making money as long as money is not your great worth.
 And as long as money is not your master will talk about that today as well.
 The key here is that God is the one who created commerce.
 So if you follow his ways of doing it, you'll be amazed at how much easier it is for you to
 have it.
 What it does it control you, it's amazing how much easier it is for you to have some that you
 can control.
 So here's a fact.
 If you don't rightly relate to your time and money, then they will absolutely enslave you.
 Yes, I just use the word enslave.
 If you don't have a plan for your assets, your assets will end up using or even abusing you.
 So today I want to talk about mastering your time and your money.
 No, that may sound like a strange approach to some people.
 So let me explain why I'm using that particular word.
 We could say manager time wisely or steward your money well and both are necessary.
 That's for sure, but what we found, however, is that people tend to be slaves to time and money
 or the lack of time and money.
 This is the relationship that I'm trying to emphasize.
 Chris, that's a strong word slaves.
 Really?
 Is it really a strong word?
 Is it too strong a word?
 Now for those of you that have followed for a long time and for those of you that follow
 Dave Ramsey, then maybe you've come to a place where you've learned that that's truth and
 you're not dealing with that anymore, which is great.
 That's fabulous.
 But I will tell you, it is not too strong of a word to say that people become slaves to time
 and money.
 How do I know?
 Because one of the things we help people to do is to get out of the bondage of seeking so
 much worth in either time or money.
 And for many, many, many people that is a very, very real thing.
 So when you have mastery over something, let's say that you've mastered a skill, what we
 mean is that you have control over it.
 You can do it really well.
 You can do it with proficiency, understanding, and it allows you to kind of rightly enjoy and
 manipulate the very thing that you're mastering.
 And I don't mean manipulating a bad way, although you could do that.
 But you've made that thing that skill a useful servant to you.
 That's not where most people find themselves when it comes to time and money.
 So when we come back, how both time and money are limited, fluid and must be leveraged to
 your advantage.
 Hey folks, a couple of years ago I was visiting with a client and the
 CEO said to me, Chris, we're not going to hit our goal.
 I asked him what he meant.
 And he said, we're going to miss our three year revenue goal coming out of Stratplanned by a few
 months.
 I didn't realize it at first that he was having a little fun with me by saying they were about
 to triple their company in less than three years.
 How freaking awesome is that.
 Folks, these are the kinds of results that businesses get by coming through our four day
 Stratplanned events.
 On average, we find $2.1 million worth of revenue in the next 12 months that the company
 was not planning on.
 And this event is for all size businesses.
 If you're small, medium, or large, it works for every business because it's not industry
 specific, it's about gaining all the information about all the things inside of your business
 that are holding you back from success and then giving you a plan and a process on how to
 walk that out and be successful in your business.
 By discovering the things that are holding you back, it helps you get to all of those goals
 that you've been planning on for a long time.
 So if you're ready to get the perspective, you need to solve what's holding you and
 your business back.
 So you can grow faster than you need Stratplanned.
 To learn more, go to Chrissacroteau.com/stratplanned.
 That's Chrissacroteau.com/stratplanned.
 So there's a strange relationship between time and money and maybe you've noticed the
 connection before.
 But here's some quotes about it.
 Time is money.
 Waste it now.
 Pay for it later.
 Benjamin Franklin.
 It takes time to make money and it takes money to save time unknown who that was.
 Wasted time means wasted money means trouble.
 Surely temple smart little dancer at there.
 And if that's not enough, if time is money, then I'm an hour pass paid little one.
 That last one's for fun, but still true.
 Most people don't consider how they're handling money until it runs out or until it
 ruins them.
 As somebody who experienced this early, early, early on in my life grew up without money, ended up
 with money, ended up in a relationship where I used a lot of that money to impress somebody
 and ended up with no money.
 So when I was in my late teens and early 20s, I made mistakes with money and very quickly realized
 that I threw away the things that I knew about handling finances very quickly and had
 to make some quick changes to that.
 So here's the thing.
 Most people don't consider how they're handling money until it runs out or ruins them.
 The same could be said about their time and how they use it or how it uses them.
 Why?
 Because they don't understand a simple concept or maybe they're just ignoring it.
 But here it is.
 Both time and money are limited in quantity and availability.
 Now here's the thing, there's no shortage.
 This isn't a scarcity mindset.
 There's an actual abundance to appoint a bow time and money.
 No one has ever had a limitless amount of either time or money.
 But let's get into some details because as we grow and understanding and gain perspective,
 it'll give us leverage over both of these resources.
 Here's the key though.
 Well time and money are gift from God Almighty without him neither would exist.
 And for that matter, you wouldn't exist.
 He puts them into our hands and there's a purpose.
 We're going to get to that later.
 But there's a purpose for both.
 So let's start with time.
 The truth is while there's an abundance of time, it's going to run out.
 It is limited.
 Your time is limited.
 It will run out.
 Everybody dies.
 Maybe when you're teen, you don't think so or you don't care because it just seems like,
 you're going to live forever.
 But time keeps moving.
 It's fluid.
 It's finite.
 It has to be focused.
 It has to be trained.
 It has to be curiled.
 It has to be invested well and short.
 It has to be mastered.
 If you don't have a plan for your time, then you will become a slave to your time constraints.
 Or the time constraints that others are going to put on you.
 So in one sense, time replenishes or resets daily, we're all given the same 24 hours.
 Right?
 We each get the same trip around the sun.
 But at some point, our time will be up.
 Someone once said, "Today is a gift from God.
 Learn to enjoy the giver more than the gift."
 Spoiler alert.
 There's an expiration date on your time.
 So if time is a gift from God and we know that our time is limited and we know that we
 have lots of it to use, at least in the beginning.
 There's an abundance of time until we get close to the end.
 Right?
 If we understand these concepts and we understand that each person, you know, Hebrews 927
 tells us each person is appointed a time to die.
 If we understand these things, then we can understand that we need to master our time.
 The Psalmist once prayed, teach us to realize the brevity of life.
 So that we may grow and wisdom.
 Psalm 92.
 How are you recognizing and actualizing the brevity of your life?
 Are you taking control of your time or is time your master?
 The average human spends roughly 79 years.
 That's 28,835 days on earth.
 So there's an average of 692,000 hours in life.
 The clock is literally ticking down.
 Now, that's the average.
 It doesn't mean that you're going to live that long.
 It doesn't mean that you're going to die that early.
 Maybe you're going to live a lot longer.
 That all depends on what God's plan is for you, right?
 But then there's this afterwards part.
 Romans 14, 12 says every one of us will give an answer to God about their life and time.
 So what is scripture telling us?
 Master your time and stood it well.
 He wise with it because someday you're going to have to give an account.
 Man, so often, and I used to be one of these people in ministry that would teach, hey,
 all you got to do is say the simple prayer of salvation that doesn't technically exist in
 scripture.
 If you just say this prayer of salvation, everything is good and golden.
 You don't ever have to think about anything else after that.
 Everything is great and yet so many Christians can't understand why life can be such a struggle.
 And why there is struggle.
 God doesn't stop with a prayer.
 God didn't stop at the cross.
 He is the eternal pursuer of your heart.
 He is the one who is guiding and directing and trying to get you to understand him more.
 Not you.
 His goal isn't for you to be focused on you.
 His goal is for you to be focused on him.
 And so things we have to understand.
 We still have to give an account for our life.
 There are so many Christians that are coming to an understanding that our belief system was jacked
 up about 1700 years ago, that there was a lot of pagan influence that was shoved into our belief
 system.
 If you ever want to find out how God feels about paganism, jump right back into Deuteronomy 12,
 3331, and take a look.
 It's super important to recognize that the last thing God wants, something that God absolutely
 hates is people serving him in the ways that people serve pagan gods.
 If you, I'm going to tell you there's a book you need to read.
 You're probably not ready for it.
 It's a tough one.
 And a lot of people put it down and don't like it because people want to be selfish.
 That's a book called "Pagan Christianity."
 Pick that up.
 Read it.
 Just listen to it on audio.
 It's the one book I tell people that you really need to physically read this thing so that you
 don't miss anything.
 But it's a powerful piece of coming to understanding some things about God that God's not
 done trying to get you to be the follower that he wants you to be because he understands that
 the more you become a disciple of his, the follower he wants you to be, the more blessings
 he has for you.
 It's not legalism.
 Most people don't even understand what that term means.
 That means one of two things people say it's following God's ways and it's not.
 That's actually a lie.
 Realism is one of two things believing that you have salvation by following his ways and that
 salvation is not from faith.
 That is absolutely untrue and it's wrong and it's legalism or adding to the things that he's
 asked you to do that you have to do those things.
 Which again is legalism.
 Why is this all important?
 Because when you come to an understanding and again, to huns of Christians are coming to
 this understanding recently and a lot of people are moving away from getting you further away
 from God, which is sad, what scripture tells us that's going to happen anyways, right?
 When you come to the part of understanding about the afterwards, the thing that follows
 this life, then you can come to an understanding of what is God asking us to do when it comes
 to mastering time.
 When it comes to mastering money, is he asking us to go and build empires to ourselves?
 Or is he asking us to focus on him?
 There is nothing in there that says you can't go build a successful business, a successful life,
 a successful family.
 But when you come to a place of knowing that the best place you can be in is focusing on mastering
 your time and money for God and that there's blessings that come with it.
 And then there's also punishments for when we don't follow the things you ask for, then it changes
 the way you look at your life.
 He is the giver of your time.
 He's the one who's allowing you to have everything.
 So many people don't recognize when God says, go look at your harvest, go look at your fields.
 You don't even recognize that I'm the one who's cutting them in half because you're not
 being obedient to me.
 Any good father wants his children to follow his ways.
 And this is what God's asking you to do.
 So here is where time and money intersects at this very real and literal accounting part.
 When you give an account to the giver of the gift of how you spent your time on this planet,
 do you think you're going to say, did you invest it?
 Well, did you honor the giver?
 Did you waste your life?
 Were you a master or a slave?
 Were you able to turn a profit?
 Jesus said, how do you benefit if you gain the whole year old, but lose your own soul?
 Oh, well, Chris, that's not what that means.
 No, it absolutely is what that means.
 What he's saying is, is that you can't serve two masters.
 What he's saying is, is that money is not more important than God.
 Time is not more important than God.
 When your time ends, does it matter how much money you've made?
 Does it matter how much money is in the bank?
 Does it matter more what you did with your time and your relationship to the giver or your
 time and relationship to the things of this world?
 What do you think God is going to think is more important?
 Quite often in Stratplan.
 One of the things we talk about is, as we're helping people to run better businesses to make
 more money to make more profit, is also remember this.
 You're never going to get to heaven, and God says, man, I'm so impressed with what you did
 on that bottom line.
 He screwed up a whole bunch of people in your business.
 Didn't take care of the team members I put there or didn't take care of clients.
 But wow, you did a great job running your business.
 Nobody's ever going to spend time in front of God, and he's going to be impressed with
 money.
 None of that says that you can't make money.
 None of that says that you can't build businesses that make money.
 None of that says that.
 The key here is if you're going to master your money, then you've got to find out, and
 your time, then you've got to find out the limitations and one of the big limitations is how
 God views it.
 God does not view money as more important than him, time as more important than him.
 So I know that's laying down a lot.
 And a lot of people are going, I don't even know how to take this right now.
 Great.
 Ask me questions.
 Let me up with things.
 If you have questions about any of this, please feel free podcast at christlicker.com.
 Would love to have those questions.
 In fact, I'd love to hear if you guys liked to ask questions about anything.
 If there's scriptural questions that you have or things that you've been struggling with, there's
 not a question you can ask.
 This stuff is important because the more we discover this, and I will tell you, as somebody
 who was taught the wrong things decades ago, and having learned praise God hallelujah, some
 of the correct things and so many Christians are coming to understand that we've had some
 pretty bad influences in our belief system.
 And it doesn't change you from being a Christian to follow God's ways.
 But instead of a jauze when closer, a jauze when to greater blessings, greater understandings.
 The more we understand a right attitude when it comes to money, time, relationships, and
 the more we understand how much God wants us to follow Him, not our own hearts, not the ways
 of the world, but to follow Him, the more we can make better decisions when it comes to
 mastering these things.
 And mastering it doesn't mean that you become somebody who's only focused on making money,
 instead it means that you understand the importance of it.
 I bust my butt to put food on the table of not just myself, but my family, my team, for them
 to put food on the table of their families, but at the end of the day, everybody understands
 what's more important to me.
 If it's between money and God, money doesn't even matter.
 God matters.
 Money is a tool.
 So, whoops, lots of stuff.
 Hey, money is limited.
 You've probably come to understand that by now.
 Money keeps moving.
 It's fluid, but it can replenish itself when it's properly mastered.
 So if you leave it buried in the backyard, guess what?
 You're going to lose its value.
 If you put it in the bank, you're going to struggle to keep up with inflation.
 If you invest it, you just might get ahead.
 Only to watch it fluctuate.
 Money like time has to be focused, trained and curled.
 It has to be put to work.
 Has to be invested.
 It has to be mastered.
 What happens if we don't?
 Then it's going to do all of those things to us.
 It will shift your focus off of what's important.
 It will train you to worry to fret to chase after it.
 It will invest you in freveless things that aren't going to help you.
 These are said, don't worry about everyday life, whether you have enough food and drink or even
 enough clothes to wear.
 Isn't life more than food and your body more than clothing?
 Can all your worries at a single moment to your life?
 Of course not, folks.
 None of the worry is going to do anything to add to your life.
 Except that's stress.
 Notice the connection once again between time and money.
 The lack of money makes you worry in fret, then you get caught in a trap or, as I'm saying,
 enslaved.
 But can all that worrying about money?
 And all the things it can buy at any time to your life?
 Not at all.
 And Matthew 6, he continues, "No one can serve to masters.
 You'll hate one and love the other.
 You will be devoted to one and despise the other.
 You cannot serve God and be enslaved to money."
 So that's pretty darn clear.
 Choose to master your time and money or they will both enslave you.
 I've taught this for decades.
 If you don't have a plan for your money, if you don't put it in to work for you, then you
 will end up working for it.
 Month a month, paycheck to paycheck.
 Maybe you've already been there and maybe you've already done that.
 Big keys here.
 What are we talking about once again?
 I have plenty of money.
 I continue to run businesses that make money.
 I'm just not enslaved to it.
 And this is a guy who came from no money broke as a, you know, times in my childhood, eaten
 government cheese, no electricity.
 So we're washing our clothes on the front porch.
 I know what it's like to be without money.
 I've been working legally for a paycheck since I was 14.
 And working before that under the table.
 Doing everything I can.
 How many times I've worked multiple jobs, two, three jobs at one time so that I could get
 ahead.
 That's happened in my life.
 I've busted it.
 I understand it.
 But there was even a time in my life that I thought if I didn't continue to make plenty of
 money that I would be in trouble.
 Only for God to reveal to me that it's not a matter of that.
 If I understand how to master it by making God more important than he would help me in my
 finances.
 So now let's talk about being a slave to money constraints.
 Scripture tells us that your debts will control or master you.
 Proverbs 227 just as the rich rule over the poor.
 So the barberslave to the lender.
 You've heard that before if you've read the economist in money magazine in the recent years,
 then you've likely seen headlines like debt has now become a new form of slavery in the
 modern world.
 Actually folks, that is not new.
 The historians have often linked real literal slavery with real literal financial debt.
 And of course we see plenty of evidence of that in tons of biblical accounts.
 That is a form of slavery.
 But just keeping out of debt, I eat slavery isn't enough.
 Think about people who've owned slaves.
 Look at the ferals of ancient Egypt.
 They were buried with their treasures.
 Sometimes inside of their treasures and yet they couldn't take it with them.
 They went on and left everything behind.
 Person can only accumulate so much, but no one takes anything with them at the end.
 1st Timothy 6.7, the apostle Paul writes to his young disciple saying, "After all, we brought
 nothing with us when we came into this world.
 And we can't take anything with us when we leave it."
 Psalm 49.17, "For when they die, they take nothing with them, they're wealth, we'll
 not follow them into the grave."
 Job said I came naked from my mother's room and I will be naked when I leave.
 The ecclesiasties 515, we all come to the end of our lives as naked and empty handed as on
 the day we were born.
 We can't take our riches with us.
 So we have to focus on mastering it in this life while we still have time.
 The cool thing is that you can always get more money, no matter how much you've spent,
 no matter how much you've lost or how poorly you've mastered in the past.
 Don't let your past failures stop you from taking charge of your life today.
 When we come back, learning to master both time and money now while we still get it.
 Freedom, it's so powerful.
 I don't rejuvenate and almost renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So I was very comfortable there.
 I had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it.
 It's going to be hard, but it's going to be even better on the other side.
 For me it was just a very refreshing and I want to say life giving to me and really was.
 You know, I would go to the next level of life again and probably again and probably again
 because it's so powerful.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of self-awareness
 and freedom that they have or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like
 for you, then head on over to Chrissacordo.com/nextlevellife.
 I don't care how you've missed manage Miss Handled Misappropriate and Miss Judge, or Miss
 Gattage Your Time and Money.
 Don't let that make you miss out on being the master of it now.
 Time and money.
 You need both in this life, right?
 Both your time and money need to be realized for what they are.
 Servants.
 Nothing more.
 Nothing less.
 You are there, Master.
 As God has entrusted you with both of these things, their your gifts and you need to master
 both.
 Since they're tethered together, time and money are connected.
 They're a package.
 Just look at compounding interest, for example.
 So here's a deal.
 You can use your time to make money and to an extent having enough money can give you back
 a certain amount of free discretionary time.
 I will tell you as somebody who has been on both sides of not having any money and having
 plenty of money.
 The difference is when I no longer got worth from my money and realize that this is a tool
 for God.
 My goal switch to how do I use this for God?
 I can tell you that right now.
 A certain level of wealth gives you the ability to decide what you want to do with your time.
 So if we took Elon Musk for example after his $44 billion acquisition of Twitter, he's
 no longer the world's richest man, but he's still incredibly wealthy and able to decide whether
 to work for money or not.
 Sure, he's now crowdsourcing to pay off the platforms, debts, but given enough time, he can regain
 what he's lost and then some, and I'm pretty darn sure he's going to do exactly that.
 It depends on his mastery of both resources, whether he's a slave to either of those.
 I can't say, but what about you?
 Now I can tell you, I have my feelings.
 I feel like if Elon had a solid relationship with God and I'm only saying this because
 of an interview that I've seen, then I think his choices would change.
 I think his focus would change.
 I think those of you that have probably followed him a lot, probably would agree with me.
 I don't follow him a lot, but I've seen enough about him to know where he is on certain things.
 There's a my assumptions and he's a very smart man.
 So I believe that if he had a better perspective on God, he would have a different perspective
 on how he handles his finances.
 But here's a deal.
 I want to leave you with an important question.
 Your answer here can actually defend you against becoming or staying a slave to time or money.
 How are you honoring God with your time and your money?
 God tells us to honor him with our time.
 God tells the children of Israel, which by the way, if you are a faithful follower of God,
 you are a spiritual israelite, you gain in the same inheritance.
 You may not have been taught that because we do such a bad job teaching this type of stuff,
 you know, in church.
 But guess what?
 You've heard that you're going to get an inheritance once the same inheritance, right?
 Because you've become one of his children.
 And what does he tell us to do?
 He tells us to honor, remember, and observe the Sabbath.
 Never took that away.
 Something to know that doesn't make you some other religion.
 It doesn't make you some other denomination.
 It's coming to a place of discovering why does God want you to rest?
 Why is that an important thing?
 Why is that one of his 10 commandments that was never taken away?
 Once again, taking Christianity, read the book, get it.
 There's so many books out there, but this is a great one done by a research side, which
 people tend to be able to absorb easier.
 Why is it so important?
 Who is he talking to?
 The children of Israel coming out of slavery?
 Now, he didn't institute Sabbath.
 And the Exodus, he instituted at the creation.
 And he gave us a command to honor it then.
 There were supposed to follow it.
 He reminded the children in the desert to follow it.
 And then he gave it as a command to, as one of the 10 commandments at Mount Sinai.
 Why?
 Because he's helping us to understand that we are worth is not in productivity to him.
 The slaves coming out of Egypt, their whole worth was in productivity.
 And God was helping them to understand, I'm going to give you six days to do whatever you want.
 But one day I want you to rest and spend that time with me.
 Right?
 So honor it.
 You have six days each week for your ordinary work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath day of
 rest dedicated to the Lord your God on that day.
 No one in your household may do any work.
 This includes you, your sons and daughters, your male and female servants, your livestock.
 And any foreigners living among you, for in six days the Lord made the heavens, the earth,
 the sea and everything in them.
 But on the seventh day he rested, that is why the Lord blessed the Sabbath day inside
 of the part is holy.
 He gives us this day also to remind us that we were once slaves, but the he rescued us from
 bondage.
 Hello.
 We were once slaves to sin.
 Surely you've heard that preached and he rescued us from bondage.
 He gave us the gift of time and liberty to freely and willfully honor him with it.
 So if this is landing and this is something that you're just like gosh, I feel like this is
 you.
 God is working on my heart on this.
 Spend time researching what the truth is about it.
 Once again you are not hearing me point you to some different religion, some different denomination.
 I'm saying find out how paganism invaded your belief system and you're following things
 from it.
 Then go read, do to around me 12, 30 through 31 and see how God feels about you doing anything
 that the pagans do.
 Anything.
 Right?
 Why is this so important, Chris?
 Why are you talking about this?
 Because having realized this years ago, it is absolutely blessed our lives to do things the
 way that God wants our great Father wants us to.
 Our loving dad wants us to.
 So I'm sharing this with you, hoping that people will make the decision to research, to test
 this, test everything.
 God says, test everything.
 Go test it in his word, remove man's doctrine and dig into God's word and see what he says
 about it.
 So God reminds us that this is a gift that he has given us not to waste it, but instead
 to Stuart it, to redeem it, to make it work for us.
 The same principle is true with our money.
 Honor the Lord with your wealth.
 Proverbs 3 goes on to say, "ONTER HIM WITH THE BEST part of EVERYTHING YOU Predict US."
 He will fill your barns with grain and your vats will overflow with good wine.
 Guys, God's not a liar.
 He will bless you with roosters.
 So how do we honor God with our money?
 Understand that it's not about building an empire to you.
 Consider typing if you haven't done that.
 Consider giving to those who are in need that don't have.
 But it doesn't stop there.
 Audering him with a portion reminds us just like the Sabbath not to be enslaved to money, nor
 to waste it.
 And guess what we need to be reminded.
 God with our time and our money reminds us that ultimately he is the true master of both time and
 money.
 It reminds us that we can't have two masters just like Jesus said.
 He owns it all.
 He owns it all anyway.
 Or the other studies.
 Or the stewards.
 He's the eternal God of time and he owns the whole earth and all its resources.
 The fact is that we will end up serving one and hating the other, which we will use serving
 and which one of you despising God or time, God or money.
 It's a sobering thought right.
 Here's the good news.
 You are not serving time or money when you properly master them.
 Well folks, that's all the time we have for today and again I want to tell you right now if
 there's a struggle that you're experiencing with any of this and you want to ask a question,
 podcast at christlickard.com, feel free.
 There's no offense.
 If you want to tell me how crazy I am and how wrong I am and how stupid I am.
 That's fine.
 Feel free.
 My goal is to educate and help you to get a better place and better understanding.
 So please feel free to reach out and talk about anything you can do this.
 As always, we want you to take this information, change your leadership, change your business,
 absolutely change your life and join us on the next episode.
 (upbeat music)
 [MUSIC PLAYING]