 Delagation, knowing when to risk your team and running out of time, all of that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life, and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. Today we have some great topics that we are covering. We're going to talk about leadership struggles. You guys tell us you're having.
 And when I say that you're having this is everybody that's dealing with this as well. The things you email us and our seeking growth in which is phenomenal. We appreciate that. We love to hear that. We love those questions. It helps us to know how you're looking to grow.
 So our first question up is a question that points to a struggle leaders have every day when leading a team. The question is this. Chris, I struggle with consistently delegating after I have trained the person to do the things on their own and knowing when to jump in and provide support and want to let them struggle for learning purposes. I can promise you.
 This is every single person that is listening to the show right now. Every person struggles with quality delegation. Every person struggles with knowing how to do it correctly. That's why when in our mastermind program, the number one lesson we push out is what's called killing the leadership crazy cycle.
 It is a must you have to go through this you have to learn this because people have not been taught proper delegation. Now a lot of folks think that they have been taught how to delegate or that they figured it out. I can promise you.
 You haven't unless you've had somebody who has literally showed you how to set people up for success and that's a gosh. I think that's like an hour and a half lesson. So obviously I can't get into that here, but I'm going to hit some of the highlights from this piece.
 But if somebody has not sat you down and taught you how to do it, then you're lacking in the area of delegation. It's not making sense. The number one goal to delegation. The number one goal. Now the object of delegation is to duplicate myself right.
 I want to be able to do either more or do more of the same thing that I'm already doing. Whatever that is as a leader, my goal is to get all of the tasks off of me that somebody else should be doing.
 So I am freed up to lead the team to success. A lot of you out there here that you're scared to death because you're like what would I do if I wasn't doing all those tasks Chris you lead you lead your team.
 I think at the next level leadership level event this one we're going beyond the killing leadership crazy cycle to help people to see now what do I do to set my people up for success.
 So the same as leading people to success you need to do in the delegation process. So how do what does that look like as you're turning again. I'm just going to hit this briefly as you're delegating a task to somebody you have to remember something you've been doing it.
 You're the expert at it or at least you've you've had enough time that you know what you're doing with this process what makes you think that the other person is going to be able to do it as well as you as you give to him.
 You shouldn't be thinking that because if they could do that it wouldn't be called delegation it would just be transferring of tasks right because there's no what to do so instead you have to realize communication is absolutely key how I communicate how to do the task how to do whatever it is on delegating that is paramount to their success.
 If I do not communicate it well so I've got to make sure that I'm finding somebody who can do the job first off somebody who has the talent has the capacity has the time and then I need to communicate how to do the job.
 Do not just delegate something to somebody and give them five minutes worth of attention. Hey here's how you do this I scratch the down on a piece of paper or you know I think you've kind of watched me do this before you have to train train them train them well.
 Communicate well make sure that they're asking all kinds of questions that every question that they have is answered and by the way ask them well questions do you have does this make sense.
 What are you well you know what are this does not make sense ask questions in gain perspective because that allows them to be able to not feel stupid when you're asking them doesn't make sense do you get it.
 The questions do you have it gives them the freedom to be able to ask questions why is this important it's important so you don't walk away and they don't go.
 Gosh I really only understood about 40% of what he said.
 You want them to be successful so that's the front side of delegation and I think everybody kind of gets that I know a lot of people still don't they still look to just.
 You know tell somebody this is what you do and then leave it at that but let's assume that you are understanding that you need to communicate it incredibly well to folks.
 The next thing is you've got to do some drive by's.
 What I mean by that is as you've got to go by the team members set up time if it's five minutes if it's 15 minutes if it's 30 minutes because you need it you have to spend time either going to them.
 To make sure that they're doing it successfully or have them coming to you to ask questions either way.
 And again like I say a lot of times you need to go to them because it makes it easier you're in their environment the process is happening most likely at their desk.
 So go to them and make sure that they have every question answered ask them how it's going ask to see how they're doing check the results while you're there.
 And then ask them how how did they get to this why is this piece missing don't treat them without dignity.
 Do that by making sure that they understand that you're trying to gain perspective to set them up for success.
 How can I help you if I need to gain perspective to know what's lacking what is confusing and also need to ask questions to find out how we're missing the mark over here why why are we missing here what's happening.
 What are you experiencing in this process so I can solve it so I can retrain or communicate something better because I didn't do a good job in the first place.
 Spend that time and in the beginning stages this may be a couple times a week that you just need to do a little five minute drive by or again it may take a 30 minute drive by right.
 As you see them being more successful than you can back off and back off and back off and back off.
 This is something that people do not do.
 Most leaders who delegate or most people I should say do not do what I'm telling you right now and again there's a heck of a lot more steps to make sure to ensure that it's successful but just start with these two.
 Okay.
 Most people do not do the follow-up side of things.
 They don't spend the time making sure that they delegate it properly and that the person gets it or understands it.
 They don't spend the time training again if need be.
 They don't spend the time asking the questions that need to be asked to make sure that they are doing it properly or that they're not confused about it.
 If you will do this and you'll commit the time to doing so then guess what you will have trained somebody to take on the project or the task that you used to be doing then you can focus on something else.
 But that's a lot of time. Okay. Well, what's your other option? Keep it. Keep doing the same thing. Keep it on your plate.
 That's not very efficient.
 It's not very smart when it comes to leadership, right?
 Your goal isn't to be doing a bunch of tasks as a leader.
 You've hired people for that. So train them well and get it off your plate.
 Now let's talk to the part about struggling for learning purposes.
 I completely get where you're coming from. That's a great question.
 You know, when do I provide support and when do I let them struggle for learning purposes?
 This is a tough thing. If you are new to delegating or if you're new to this style, do not let them struggle for teaching purposes.
 It's just not needed, man. It is, don't do it.
 Because that needs to be an intentional thing where you can see what the outcome is going to be.
 Otherwise it's a waste of time, right?
 So if you're new to this, don't let them struggle for learning purposes.
 When you've done this a long time, when you have a great track record of being able to delegate to people,
 and you can see when allowing them to struggle a little bit,
 it's going to change the outcome for the good.
 Then you can start waiting into that.
 But what a lot of people do is they convince themselves and, by the way,
 personality style absolutely matters.
 You know, there are certain personality styles depending upon what the task is that you don't do that.
 Because it's just going to backfire on you.
 So you have to also take that into consideration.
 But a lot of people will convince themselves that doing this, that letting somebody struggle
 because it's for learning purposes is a really good idea, and yet they don't expect the outcome
 or they don't realize that the person isn't going to learn from it this time.
 Or the way that they're going to walk through this problem is that they're going to struggle
 and they're not going to be able to see that there was a learning part to this process.
 It's just going to continue to compound and become bad.
 So don't do that.
 Only do it when you've done this well enough and long enough, and you've led people long enough,
 and you know your people well enough, and you know their personality styles well enough,
 that you can see that allowing them to struggle in this is going to help them in the outcome.
 And I will depending upon the person sometimes teet up, I will let them know.
 Hey, I'm going to let you struggle on this because this is something that I want you to learn.
 So I'm not giving you information on this.
 Sometimes I will teet up.
 Sometimes I won't, that usually my veterans, those people that have been here long enough,
 that I can just let them walk into it and see that it's going to be a problem.
 But it's not something that I highly suggest that you're constantly doing.
 If you've done a great job leading and answering questions and that's the part that you want them to struggle on,
 more than anything, while you're in the mix with them, is to get them to be vulnerable and have to ask questions.
 So when they don't know a process or they're not doing a process well, ask them.
 So how are you going to get the answer to that?
 Well, I was hoping you would tell me, fantastic.
 When were you going to ask me?
 Help them struggle in those areas to see that they're not doing the things to get to the answers.
 That will be a heck of a lot better.
 So let me just take a quick moment to give you an example of a situation where I've done that,
 where I have let somebody struggle a little bit because for a learning purpose.
 So Erin West, one of my team members from years ago,
 was great when he had come on board.
 He was in. He came on as an event coordinator. He's now an entrepreneur runs his own business.
 And I use him every year at our big event. He still comes in and takes care of me because you hire smart people.
 You want to keep smart people around. So even though he's an entrepreneur, I hire him to do my big next level leadership level event on the AV side.
 So I brought him in as an event coordinator years ago. And it was great because he was under one of my team leaders.
 And he was training and he was learning on a process.
 And so I was on, was on the road.
 No, I think I was just out at meetings in town.
 And I get this email from Erin. He says,
 Hey, here's the situation. What do you want to do?
 Now this is a place where I know I've been leading people since I was 21 years old.
 I know what's going to happen. This is I'm very confident that I can let him struggle in this process.
 I've already trained him well enough. I already know his competency. I know what I can do here.
 So again, if you're not in this place, then this can backfire on you.
 So he sent me this email. And it wasn't a long email.
 It was just, here's the situation. What do you want to do?
 And that was the last line.
 And so I fired back at email and I said, Erin, what do you want to do?
 It took a few minutes. I got this email. And it was paragraphs of options.
 It was like a lot of options of all the stuff explaining stuff. He gives me all of this information at the bottom.
 He says, what do you want to do? To which I responded, what do you want to do?
 To which he sends me another email that is down to two paragraphs.
 At this time, it's so funny. I'm getting texts from his leader and the other people that work on a scene that are going, this is hilarious.
 Keep it up. I'm texting back. Hey, get back to work.
 He says, be this evil.
 That's got two paragraphs of options. He's cut it down.
 And at the bottom he says, what do you want to do?
 To which I turned back around. And I said, air in all caps.
 What do you want to do? exclamation point. Now again, I know him.
 I know what's going on in his mind. I know he's got analysis.
 Prolaces. He's having a hard time pulling the trigger on this thing. It's okay.
 I'm here. I know this stuff. Right?
 So he responds back with two tiny options.
 And he says, he says, I would pick a, but what do you want to do?
 Like great job, Aaron. Let's go with that. That's the exact right answer.
 That's what I gave you. The door, like hours later, I came in the door.
 And I walked by there. They have, they had this area with all the event coordinators.
 And I walk in the area. Everybody just starts laughing and Aaron's just, you know, he's got this great belly
 Laf that he does. He puts one hand on his chest and he just laughs like crazy.
 And I'm like, hey, man, go ahead and tell me what you want.
 Don't just wait for me to answer the question. Don't just wait for me to come up with the answer to it.
 Give me some input. But also let me know what you think.
 You're out of place right now where I need to hear that you can think about what the right answer is.
 So there's, there's an example of allowing somebody to struggle and it wasn't even that big of a struggle.
 But well, actually on his end, it was a decent struggle during that process.
 But once he learned that from me, and he saw that he had a leader who was willing to treat him with dignity,
 it wasn't that big of a process.
 So again, look for those opportunities to stretch that muscle.
 When you can see the outcome when you know what you're doing.
 Don't just do it as an excuse, do it because you know it's going to be beneficial for the person.
 And if it backfires on you, then you get your butt in there and you solve the problem.
 All right. So that's how you let somebody struggle for learning purposes.
 Again, don't let the concept of struggling for learning purposes become an excuse for you not leading.
 Some people will do that and it is just, it's a train wreck.
 Focus on what's needed to set them up for success and back off as they accomplish it a little bit, a little bit, a little bit, a little bit.
 And if they aren't growing, figure out what parts not growing and then solve that.
 All right. We have another fantastic insight and question from another leader coming up right after this.
 Hey folks, I'm going to hit you with something that's very surprising.
 You as a leader are just like everybody else.
 I know, I know we all think that we are struggling with our own situations.
 We all think that we're the only one going through what we're going through.
 And I can promise you as a as a practitioner who helps people to change their business, to change their leaderships, to change their team.
 I can tell you, you are experiencing the same things as everybody else.
 The struggles that you have making sure that your team members are focused on the right things, training up leaders inside of your business.
 How to spot leaders inside of your business, making sure that you're actually compensating people the correct way,
 making sure that your business is focused on the core values of the business.
 Not the ones back in the 90s that people nailed to a wall, but the actual things that make your business operate the right way.
 And discovering what those things are.
 There is a ton more information just like this that you're going to get at the next level leadership live event.
 Get the answers, get the solutions, get your leadership roadmap as well as the rapid implementation that you need to turn around and go put this in place to date.
 As soon as you get back, now listen, I'm a practitioner.
 This is stuff I've been doing for decades. Now listen, this is not a raw event.
 You're not just coming to get motivated. You will be incredibly motivated after two and a half days with the information that you have to go change your leadership to change your team, change your business.
 This is going to be detailed, practical and full of how to also we have a phenomenal VIP ticket option that you get all kinds of stuff bonus content bonus mastermind sessions live Q&A with me where you can ask anything you want to.
 As well as a bunch of other stuff and your meals are taking care of, don't miss that on that. So folks, this event comes around once a year and it will transform your leadership and your team guaranteed.
 Yep, we even have a guarantee for that.
 We also have a special discount for podcast listeners only on top of any deal that we are running to get an extra $50 off.
 Hurry and go to crissacrita.com, click on the big banner and when you check out inter coupon code podcast. That's all caps one word podcast.
 So today, get your tickets and experience a remarkable event.
 Go to crissacrita.com, click on the big banner and enter your exclusive coupon code to say $50 on your tickets and then join me in April at the next level leadership live event.
 All right, we are back and we are answering your questions.
 This next question came in, Chris, my struggles are the age-old problems.
 Not enough time to spend with employees to regularly communicate who and what we're about and what are and what we are establishing as a culture and approach it in our business.
 But I also have a problem of knowing how and when to move people out of a role they can't seem to fulfill.
 One is it lack of training and one is it lack of will or skill.
 We are a small staff of seven and even one person not in the right seat on the bus causes problems for everyone else.
 Wow, what a phenomenal question.
 And again, I think there's a ton of people out there that are just like, okay, I cannot wait to hear these answers because I struggle with the same stuff.
 So I'm going to start with the first part that is talking about, you know, not having enough time to communicate regularly who we are and establishing the culture and all that kind of stuff.
 Listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen.
 If you do not force the culture that you want, there's a great thing, you know, I'm ink magazine, Comcast, had me come out and speak on this kind of stuff.
 We had it as a download forever. But it's one of the lessons that we taught at one of our next level leadership live events.
 If you do not force the culture that you want, then a different culture will be forced on you.
 This is your time to establish culture. This is time to teach culture. We do it every Monday.
 Every Monday we are teaching culture. And right now, Joel is actually teaching through our core values to the team.
 Picks a core value a week. You know, he goes through and teaches the team our core values. We will do this every year.
 We'll do this. It goes through the things that we want people to know. Why it's that important to us.
 And we utilize staff meeting to build culture and teach culture as a team. So that's the number one place we start because everybody's together, right?
 Or hopefully everybody's together, depending upon what kind of business you have.
 But for us, everybody's together, even remotely, we have it set up on a computer.
 And that's where we start to really build culture. The second place that we build culture is in team meetings.
 So individual meetings of teams. This is a great opportunity for you to go over the cultural things that are important to that specific team or that specific meeting.
 Choose that opportunity. See how you can inject some culture into that meeting.
 The next one, one on one meetings. If you're not having one on one meetings, I promise you there's a whole bunch of information.
 And you're not finding out inside of your business. So that is another great place to be injecting cultural teachings.
 So many times I'm having one on one meetings with my team members and my leaders are and we are going through stuff that they need to focus on or stuff about the business.
 And this is where we inject a lot of our culture as well to help them to see this is how we treat clients.
 You know that the discussion may be about a client problem and this is a great opportunity to teach. Well, this is the way we do it.
 Don't just solve the problem, inject culture into that meeting. So those are just three of the areas.
 I'm constantly, we have such a teaching environment here. I'm teaching all the time.
 Obviously, if I'm in the next level, I'm not in the inside of there as well. So they're not learning that part, but they've all gone through it.
 And so I'm constantly teaching in staff meetings and things like that about stuff about us personally and growing them with such a teaching environment.
 If we're in a strap plan, then if they're in there, if they're in the process, then they're learning as we go.
 So for me, I am constantly teaching now, you're busting it and you're seven people and I know you may not have time to teach as much as I do.
 But teach your culture, establish your culture as you go in your meetings, make sure that you're taking those opportunities.
 It will be way more powerful if you do that. And take that staff meeting time and do that than if you do not.
 If you're just talking about communicating with the team, sprinkle in that the culture, be prepared, come up with the stuff that you're planning on talking about,
 and push that into the staff meetings so that everybody understands, guys, this is the way we handle clients.
 This is the way we handle the UPS guy when he comes in and we treat him great. You know, if it's UPS or FedEx, those guys love coming in here.
 We do dry cleaning. We've got a company, a great company, tapped, shadow, that comes in and does our dry cleaning.
 And they love coming. Just happy talk to the, you know, the gals out front and they just love coming in.
 Why? Because that's how we treat people. We treat them well.
 I don't care if you're coming in and you're somebody who's spending a ton of money on an event or if you're the guy picking up the dry cleaning, you're no different.
 You're no different to us. Everybody is the same. And that's the way we treat people. So teach them that help them to understand that.
 The way that we look at how our client puts money on our table.
 That is a vitally important thing part of our culture.
 Understand people coming in and spending money with us. That's how you get paid.
 Take care of them. Understand that. One of the other pieces is one of our other core values that we teach.
 And again, it's it's our culture. Is that everybody has a root system.
 Understand that and honor it. Everybody is operating from, you know, something that's jacked up in their past or some bad decision making or whatever.
 So teach this stuff as you go along. Now, one of the things I will also do.
 Depending upon how heavy the culture item is, you know, sometimes something will happen and come up.
 And it is something that I will pull the whole team in.
 I need to stop the team. I don't care what you're doing. Depending on, you know, it depends.
 You know, if if Joel's in the next level of life event, obviously, I'm not going to pull him out of that.
 But I will stop the team whoever I can stop and pull it and go, guys, this just happened. Let me teach you on this.
 This is how we handle these situations. This is what we do here.
 This is important for us to stop and understand. I'll take that moment. It takes five minutes.
 Worst case scenario takes 10. So I will do that and make sure that I'm teaching and helping people to see this is our culture.
 This is what we do. So moving on to the other parts of what you're asking.
 You know, I also have a problem of knowing when to move people out of a role that they can't seem to fulfill.
 And one is it a lack of training and what is it a lack of will or skill.
 Now, here's what I want you to see.
 In that, the way that this is phrased. This is phrased in a way that does not point to you as the leader.
 Okay, it points to them.
 Or even if, well, you know, the lack of training, you could kind of say that that's pointing to here's what I always do.
 I always start with what is my problem here.
 What am I doing wrong? What did I not do as a leader?
 I always want to rule me out first because if it's not me, then I need to tackle the problem.
 But oh my gosh, if it is me, I better get on me really quickly.
 If I are the problem, then I need to solve me immediately.
 So the first thing I do is I take a look at the situation where somebody is struggling in a role or it seems like they can't fulfill it or whatever it is.
 And I ask the question, what am I doing wrong is their leader? What can I do better?
 Which this is why I have meetings once every two months.
 For team members to come in and tell me how I'm not doing, you know, what am I not doing well is their leader?
 Or what is their team leader not doing well is their leader?
 I have those meetings for specific reason to find out and solve problems.
 We didn't even talk about them or anything that they need to work on. We talk about us.
 You know, the leadership team, what am I or what is your leader not doing well and what can we focus on?
 And it's not a place for them. It doesn't tee them up to go attack people and all that kind of stuff.
 It is a solid opportunity for us to discover problems.
 So the thing that I always focus on is what is my problem? What am I doing wrong is a leader?
 I will always start there and if it's me, I will tackle it.
 Hey guys, I'm screwing up on this or hey, I made a mistake here or I didn't do this well.
 You know, whatever it is, I'm sorry, I did not communicate this part too well.
 So let me reccommunicate it and let me make sure that we are absolutely on the same page.
 I do that, whatever.
 You know, whenever that is happened, yes, there's a possibility that the guy who teaches great quality communication may have a time where he doesn't give great quality communication.
 It has happened, but the reason why we don't have to worry about that so much is because we focus greatly on communicating especially from the leader.
 The leader is done a good job to make the team member successful, then they should be successful.
 So that's the first place I start.
 Second thing is, I want to make sure that the person and the role line up.
 Now, once again, you're a small business of seven, so it's very possible you guys are wearing many hats.
 When I started this business, I told the first few peeps, listen, we're going to wear a lot of hats.
 And as we can hire more, we'll take some of those hats off of you.
 But in the early days, you're going to have to do stuff that's not your personality style.
 It's not your strength, that's not your values, but you're going to do it.
 If you want to stay paid, then you're going to do it.
 And we busted and busted and busted and as we could hire people that filled our weaknesses great.
 We took the weaknesses off because that was their strengths.
 So I completely understand that and that may be something that's happening inside of your business.
 But what you need to understand is, is that you need to focus heavily, does the role and the gifts or talents of the team member align.
 If they do not, why is that person in the role?
 So in other words, if you have a 99C and a 50D and they've got like a 20I and 18S, this probably should not be your front desk person.
 Probably not the best person.
 They're not a people person.
 They are a desk person.
 So anybody walking into your building, if you're a veterinarian and that's the person that's such a front desk,
 you're going to have problems because that person is going to be focused on task, not loving on people and taking care of people.
 So that's just a bad alignment.
 It's not alignment at all.
 So you got to focus on that.
 If they can't seem to fulfill the role, is it because you've got the wrong person in the wrong role?
 Maybe you've got the right person, they're just in the wrong seat.
 So that's the second area I'm going to focus on.
 Is this a gift or talent of this person?
 Next, one is at a lack of training or one is at a lack of will or skill.
 Kind of covered the skill part.
 One is a lack of training.
 If you are doing your job of coming through as a leader to discover what's holding them back, if you're holding them accountable to their KRAs,
 we're doing, I think the lesson I'm teaching at next level leadership level,
 I've been in is like three hours on this.
 I'm going to be teaching on how to do successful KRAs inside of your business.
 It's way more than a piece of paper.
 It's so much more than people even understand.
 And it is something that drives so much success.
 If you have accountability to this process, if you have accountability to what they're supposed to be doing,
 if you have accountability in those areas, then guess what?
 If they cannot fulfill it, you should be discovering why?
 What's holding you back from being successful here?
 What's keeping you from doing this the right way?
 How come it takes you 10 hours to do this when it takes somebody else to?
 If you're digging in and yes, I know you're very busy, but guess what?
 This is how we make people successful so that we don't have to replace roles, right?
 You're probably spending a lot of time trying to fix problems from this person, because one of these things is off.
 So if you do the other parts that I'm teaching you, it's going to be way faster than what you're experiencing right now.
 So you hold them accountable to what you expect of them, what the KRA says,
 you know what the job description says, if you put that process in place, then you will start to discover pretty darn quickly,
 is it a lack of will or is it a lack of training?
 Because you'll see that they don't know what they're doing.
 And if you see that great, let's get some training in here, but then ask a question.
 Once this person is trained up, is it their gifts? Is it their talents?
 Do they even want to do it? If it's a lack of will, you'll start to see that because that will come out in a lot of their communication.
 Their communication will be more victim mentality. Their communication will be more excuses.
 That's going to be more a lack of will than it will be skill or training.
 Now keep in mind, it is possible that they will swing victim mentality if they're feeling stupid in the process.
 So if you have somebody who feels pretty confident about themselves and is having a victim mentality, then chances are it's a lack of will in that process.
 So I hope all of that is making sense. I know it's a lot.
 And there's a lot of pieces that are, if we had three more hours, I could teach you about carouss.
 But this is stuff that you can implement this week. There's your things that can help you this week to start solving this problem.
 Accountability to the carouss. Make sure that you know you've done everything that you can possibly do.
 Make sure that these things line up with their gifts and talents. If those three things aren't rocking, then yeah, don't be surprised that you're having a problem.
 Last thing I would say to this, if you were going to rehire for that role today.
 Now again, do not let the spin excuse for you to bypass pushing on yourself as a leader and checking out your leadership that your leadership may be lacking.
 But if you've gone through all those other things, then I would ask yourself this question. If you're going to hire that person today, would you hire them for that role?
 If the answer is no, why? If the answer is, I would hire them just in another area, then maybe you can see their gifts and talents last somewhere else.
 So things to be thinking about that will kind of help you kind of reverse engineer.
 Well, what would I do today? Well, the gosh there's no way I'd put them in that role. Why not? Well, because they don't like people. Well, then why are they in that role today?
 You can't train them to like people. It's just like all of the entrepreneurs in the years that people have been asking me this question.
 Chris, help me to get this person to sell when they're out with a client. You know, I've got somebody who installs carpet Chris, I cannot get them to upsell. I can't get them to help me to do that thing.
 Is there a personality style of high S or high C? Yeah, you're not going to.
 Yeah, I know your stuff about personality styles. Chris, tell me the trick. There is no trick. You're not going to do it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, just give me a tip. Okay, let me ask you your ID right.
 Hi, yeah, okay. Would you like to do accounting eight hours a day? Oh gosh, no, there's no way great. That's the same way they feel about sales.
 Okay, now I get it. So making sure you have that right person in the personality style. If you're trying to convince yourself that you can train anybody to do the thing, then you may not be looking at the personality style.
 Make sure the personality style lines up folks. We love answering your questions. We love to know what you want to learn. So email us your questions to podcast at Chrislaker.com or go to the site, click on the speak pipets of purple sidebar on the right hand side of the homepage and leave us a voice message.
 And we can include that on the show. Your input and your questions help other leaders grow. So your leadership struggles are not unique. Ask those. Let us know. We want to hear those things.
 There are thousands of leaders that are struggling with the nagging questions that are bothering you right now. So ask those questions because we have some answers for you.
 So email your leadership struggles or questions to podcast at Chrislaker.com. We check that daily or go to the website and click on the little sidebar. Ask Chris and leave us a voice.
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]