 How are you inspiring your team on a weekly basis?
 Five unconventional ways to inspire your team.
 That is coming up next.
 (upbeat music)
 Welcome to the Chris LaCredo Show,
 where we discuss leadership and life,
 and discover that business is what you do,
 not who you are.
 (upbeat music)
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 Today we are talking about inspiring teams.
 And I've got to tell you,
 if you don't have an inspired team,
 how in the world do you show up every day?
 Oh my gosh, right?
 I mean, I could not imagine showing up every day
 and working with a team that's not inspired.
 If your team is not inspired,
 they are not productive.
 What happens when you spend time focusing
 on inspiring your team?
 This is what an inspired team looks like.
 It looks like a team that has absolute buy-in.
 It looks like a team that enjoys coming to work every day.
 It looks like a team who cares about your clients,
 who cares about your external client,
 who cares about your internal client.
 It looks like a team who cares about you.
 It looks like a team who is willing to bust it
 to make people successful to care for people,
 to take care of them.
 It looks like a team who has ownership.
 When you don't have inspiration on your team,
 you have people who show up and look like part of the furniture.
 You have people that show up for just a job.
 They're not showing up for something that's bigger than themselves.
 They're not showing up for something that is inspiring
 to show up too.
 So we are talking about inspiration today.
 We are talking about how to do that.
 We've got five unconventional ways that we're talking about.
 So this all came about because I had a question
 that came from Samara West, asked a question on Facebook.
 She said, Chris, what is the greatest way you influence your team?
 So I have got five ways that I'm going to share with you.
 Now, as I build this, some of these are just simple things
 towards the front side and moving toward one of the biggest ways
 that I inspire my team.
 And I bet it's not what you think it is.
 I'm expecting that you probably don't know what that's going to be.
 The first thing I want to talk about is step away from the desk.
 Get up and get out guys.
 Listen, you're hoping in entrepreneurs, business owners, listen to me.
 I know you want every team member to work 90 hours a week and get paid for 40.
 I'm right there with you.
 I know what that's like.
 And I know you want them to show up every single day and never have a sick day
 and not take vacation days and all that stuff and personal time,
 all that kind of stuff.
 Listen, we are emotional people.
 We are not robots.
 We need a little something in our life from time to time.
 And as a leader, you can go and have fun.
 You can do stuff.
 You can get away from the office and take an extra hour or two to go.
 Just do something.
 I am a star worse fan.
 I am of that age.
 I think I was seven years old when Star Wars came out.
 And so I am a big fan.
 And over the last couple of years as they have released the last two star wars,
 I have actually shut down my office.
 We have gone during the day.
 I think I think both times it was like on a Monday.
 I think that's right.
 I think both times we went on a Monday.
 I know this last time we went on a Monday and took my team up to the theater
 and we watched the release of Star Wars.
 Why?
 Because I wanted them to enjoy something.
 Everybody wanted to go.
 And I asked a question, you guys want to go see this.
 Well, I did this last time.
 I just did it as a surprise.
 And they enjoy it.
 They have fun getting out.
 They have fun going to watch a movie.
 There we've done where we drive all the way up into Nashville to get ramen.
 Why?
 Because some of us were watching amazing cooking shows that we're doing ramen.
 And it's like, all right, we're driving a Nashville for lunch.
 And so I think it took us two and a half hours to get up there, have lunch, and come back
 and get back to the office.
 So what?
 We enjoyed it.
 We had fun.
 It was a blast.
 It was a great, inspiring time.
 It was a great family building time.
 I consider us family here.
 So you may not want to do that in your business, but I do.
 And by the way, this is the caveat.
 It needs to be something the whole team will enjoy.
 You don't want to go and do ramen if you have people in your team who are not eating noodles.
 That's not good.
 That's going to be a waste of time, right?
 You don't want to go to Star Wars if you have people that don't like movies at all.
 And I don't know who that is.
 But hey, if that person's on your team, don't go watch Star Wars.
 Or any other movies, right?
 And of course, don't go watch a movie that you shouldn't be watching with your team.
 You shouldn't be watching those movies.
 So here's the deal.
 It can be anything, but it's your attitude toward it.
 That is important.
 The leaders attitude toward getting out and doing stuff is contagious.
 It's contagious.
 Every team, when they see that you are bought into the activity that you're having fun,
 that you're excited about it.
 And you're not just trying to sell something, they are on fire for it as well.
 We just did a deal with our mastermind retreat.
 They come here four times a year.
 All of our next level leadership mastermind folks.
 And every time after the event is over, on the Friday evening we go out and we do something.
 And we have people here, we do games, or we do stuff here.
 This last time we went out on the town.
 We had to do all these videos of people doing really stupid stuff.
 I mean, we were embarrassing ourselves.
 You're so what?
 We had a blast, but I can promise you this.
 If people saw me, the one who's leading this whole thing, not be excited about it, nobody's
 going to be excited about it.
 And instead, it was a great challenge.
 A bunch of leaders and business owners in here.
 We came back to the event center that we've got, the event room here and put up on the, all
 the videos went up on the TVs and we just laughed.
 We had so much fun.
 It was a blast.
 But if the leadership has not bought into the activity, or if they're grumbling about leaving
 the office, or any of that kind of crap, guess who is going to catch that sentiment?
 It's going to be your team.
 They're going to see that you're not involved, that you don't want to be involved, and
 that you're probably just doing this because you feel like you need to check something
 out the list for the team.
 You, your attitude, absolutely matters.
 And so if your attitude is super excited, that will be contagious.
 Your people will be super excited.
 If your attitude is grumbling and just blah, that will be contagious, you will find that
 will be the same way.
 So again, your entire team needs to be able to be involved, and you need to lead this
 product.
 You don't need to lead everything that you just need to lead the excitement into the process.
 What is this matter?
 And what does it do for the team?
 It keeps them from showing up for just a job.
 It keeps them from just showing up to get a paycheck.
 It creates buy in, it creates loyalty.
 It increases their productivity when people come back and they're inspired like that.
 They work harder.
 Isn't that crazy?
 You treat people like people.
 You take care of them, you inspire them.
 They work hard.
 And it speaks volumes about the leaders' investment in each team member.
 If they see you as a leader investing in them, then that speaks a lot to them because they
 know you care.
 If they think you're doing it to check it off a list, then they're going to think you don't care.
 Number two, weekly injection of culture.
 I just recently talked about this on another episode.
 There's always an opportunity to lead on culture.
 A question we often get is, how do I walk this out?
 I know the culture I want, but how do I inject passion for the culture into my team?
 What does it even look like?
 For us, one of the biggest ways that we do this is in our Monday morning staff meeting.
 We are constantly pushing culture.
 We are teaching core values.
 We are pointing out examples.
 Just about every week, this isn't every week.
 But just about every week, there's two things I cover, which is a testimonial that's
 come in and a lesson that I want to teach them.
 The lesson can be something that's happened.
 It can be something I experienced.
 Maybe I experienced somebody else's customer service or something that I'm reading in my morning
 devotionals.
 Those are things I do to inject inspiration into the team is by helping them to see.
 This is why we do this core value.
 This is why we minister to people the way that we do.
 This is why we love on people.
 We teach using examples to the team and that is big.
 Use that opportunity.
 Use your staff meeting to inject your culture.
 It's not going to be part of the very first time.
 It might be.
 Keep working on it because what you're doing is actually working.
 Again, it may be a little struggle at first, but keep going because it's going to continue
 to build that culture that you need.
 Make your culture happen.
 Force your culture to happen.
 Don't lie your culture to be forced upon you.
 Third thing I do.
 Leadership layer.
 Do you have that leadership layer on your team?
 Now listen, if you don't have it, you don't have it.
 When you need it, create it.
 As you need leaders to lead people, then create that.
 But one of the things that I do is I focus heavily on my leadership team.
 I focus heavily.
 We go to spend time.
 We spend a lot of time together.
 But every single Monday we've got a leadership lunch that we do that we leave.
 And it's for a couple of hours where I'm focusing on injecting into my leadership team.
 Specific stuff to them, growing them together as a leadership team as well, helping them to be
 able to be vulnerable around each other.
 We're all able to be vulnerable.
 We're all able to grow.
 Why does this matter?
 This matters.
 I'll never forget one day I had Savannah on that team.
 We're in this team meeting, our staff meeting.
 I haven't said anything.
 Savannah is going along in two of the leaders.
 Heather and Joel are just going back and forth and leading things and talking about stuff.
 She stopped and she looked up.
 She goes, thanks Chris.
 After their response, she's like, "Everything I'm hearing, it's like I'm hearing Chris say this."
 And it was so fantastic to hear that because that's exactly what it was.
 I have been leading my leaders and they're turning around and leading and saying the same
 stuff.
 Like me, on the important things on how we do stuff, so much so that I don't need to jump in
 and answer questions or solve problems on certain things because I've duplicated myself in these
 areas.
 So when your team can see that, Savannah is under Joel.
 When she can see that her leader leads like the leader of the business, that's inspiring.
 When she can see that we're on the same page, that's inspiring.
 She doesn't have to worry because, well, Chris and Joel don't line up.
 Joel's not doing it the way the Chris would do it and it looks like they must not be communicating.
 That is demoralizing instead of inspiring, right?
 So make sure that you're duplicated yourself as a leader.
 Find the time to lead your leaders and make sure that they are operating culturally,
 core value-wise.
 Integrity-wise, excellent-wise, the same way that you would.
 All right, the other two unconventional ways to inspire your team are coming up when we get
 back right after this.
 Hey folks, I'm going to hit you with something that's very surprising.
 You, as a leader, are just like everybody else.
 I know.
 I know we all think that we are struggling with our own situations.
 We all think that we're the only one going through what we're going through and I can
 promise you as a practitioner who helps people to change their business, to change their
 leadership, to change their team.
 I can tell you, you are experiencing the same things as everybody else.
 The struggles that you have, making sure that your team members are focused on the right things,
 training up leaders inside of your business, how to spot leaders inside of your business,
 making sure that you're actually compensating people the correct way.
 Making sure that your business is focused on the core values of the business.
 Not the ones back in the 90s that people nailed to a wall, but the actual things that make your
 business operate the right way and discovering what those things are.
 There is a ton more information just like this that you're going to get at the next level
 leadership live event.
 Get the answers, get the solutions, get your leadership roadmap as well as the rapid implementation
 that you need to turn around and go put this in place to date as soon as you get back.
 Now listen, I'm a practitioner.
 This is stuff I've been doing for decades.
 Now listen, this is not a raw event.
 You're not just coming to get motivated.
 You will be incredibly motivated after two and a half days with the information that you have
 to go change your leadership to change your team, change your business.
 This is going to be detailed, practical, and full of how to.
 Also, we have a phenomenal VIP ticket option that you get all kinds of stuff, bonus content, bonus
 mastermind sessions, live Q&A with me where you can ask anything you want to, as well as a bunch
 of other stuff and your meals are taken care of.
 Don't miss out on that.
 Folks, this event comes around once a year and it will transform your leadership and your team
 guaranteed.
 Yep, we even have a guarantee for that.
 We also have a special discount for podcasts listeners only on top of any deal that we
 are running.
 To get an extra $50 off, hurry and go to Chrissacrita.com, click on the big banner and when you
 check out InterCoupon Code podcast, that's all caps, one word podcast.
 So today, get your tickets and experience a remarkable event.
 Go to Chrissacrita.com, click on the big banner and enter your exclusive coupon code to say $50
 on your tickets and then join me in April at the next level leadership live event.
 So we are back talking about how to inspire your team and these are five unconventional ways
 to inspire.
 There's so much more things you can do.
 There's a ton that you can do.
 But these are things that a lot of people are not thinking about.
 So number four, I've listed off the first three.
 Number four is one on one meetings.
 Now you should already be doing one on one meetings, but I have a different kind of meeting
 that I do.
 I do every two months with every team member and that is a meeting about it's not you, it's me.
 This meeting is not about you, it's about me.
 And what that is is I've been doing this for 18 years now.
 And what I've learned over the years and especially in the early days, the great thing is,
 I got this out of the way early on to discover things that I was doing wrong as a leader.
 So here's what I did.
 At this point, 18 years ago, I'd been leading for, blah, some around eight years.
 I believe that's right.
 And I brought in my sales team leader, Teresa Duke, I love her to death.
 What a great woman.
 She worked for me for many, many years.
 Almost 13 years, I believe.
 Well, probably 10 more like 10 years that she worked for me.
 But I brought her in and I said, Teresa, this meeting is not about you, it's about me.
 It's about me being your leader.
 I want to know what are the things that I am doing wrong as a leader or what can I do better
 as a leader.
 And then I brace myself.
 Not knowing what was going to come.
 And immediately, she had no problem responding.
 She said, Chris, your communication stinks.
 And I was like, okay, that's nowhere near as bad as things could have bad.
 I was like, what do you mean?
 And she goes, well, you know this thing that's happening over here and I said, yeah, she
 goes, we know nothing about it.
 And I said, well, Teresa, I assume you guys knew about that she goes, that's exactly your problem.
 You always think that we know what's inside of your brain.
 If you know it, then we must know it.
 That was stunning to me.
 That was huge for me to recognize.
 I had spent my life and again, at this point when this meeting happened, I think I was 28.
 I had spent my life in leading and believing that people knew what was inside of my head.
 That thing, if I know it, well, of course, you know it.
 And I was not communicating.
 And that is something that I started changing the way I communicate that day.
 I started writing down, I would go into meeting share information and then write down all the
 questions that came up afterwards.
 What don't you understand guys?
 What questions do you have?
 And I started writing them down.
 And the next time I would go in, I would have answered all those questions and write down
 the new ones.
 And I would go and go and go and communicate better and better and better.
 And the great thing about that is it was incredibly inspiring to my team because they could
 see they knew I wasn't communicating as well as I could.
 And this showed them that I was absolutely intentional and intense about making sure that I
 was communicating well.
 And so I answered their questions.
 I changed the way that I delivered information and that became a huge part of my leadership.
 Now, once you do this, once you put this in place, you may have this may be some difficult
 meetings for you.
 Let me tell you, some people put this in place and it's tough.
 And some people put it in place and find out they're actually doing a pretty decent job.
 For me, it didn't take long before there wasn't a whole lot for them to share.
 So what did I do then?
 When I was still having those meetings, and I'm still doing it to this day, right?
 Because I want to make sure, but guess what the meetings turn into?
 They turn into meetings where I ask them stuff about them personally, not about their work.
 It's not about that meeting is not supposed to be about their work.
 So instead I'll ask questions about them personally.
 How's the engagement going?
 How's things with your mom and dad?
 Whatever it is to continue to grow and learn more about them.
 Now I work pretty darn closely with my whole team, but it's still a great opportunity for
 me to dig in and see how things are.
 So I do this because of my schedule and from that biggest team that I had still took me two months
 to make this happen.
 So I keep that on a two month rotation because it worked out really well for me.
 You may want to start this monthly, but I feel pretty solid about a two month rotation.
 The last number five, and probably the most profound way and unconventional way to inspire
 your team is the teachable moment.
 This is something that I have absolutely created a culture of teaching in this business.
 This building I am constantly teaching.
 I'm always finding a teachable moment.
 It's so that the team likes it so much that like if we're to staff meeting or something and
 I'm going to teach on something, they grab their notebooks.
 We have some that are super excited and ready to take notes.
 That's how fun and powerful it is.
 That's how inspiring it is.
 Why is this so important?
 Very simple thing.
 There's a great man once we said you can give a manifest or you can teach him how to fish.
 Our goal is to teach people how to fish.
 We don't want to just give them a fish.
 We don't want to enable.
 We don't want them to stay the same way they are.
 Right?
 Max Vedic comment years ago.
 Would you rather pay for people to grow in their experience and they leave with the money
 you spent or not spend the money and they stay without growing?
 You don't spend the money on them and they stay.
 Gosh, I'd rather keep teaching my people.
 I spend a lot of money on coaching.
 I'm what I do.
 That's what I do for living.
 Of course, I make sure my team is successful.
 It's important because it shows the team that you're setting them up for success and you
 care about their success.
 That teachable moment it can literally be just during the day.
 It can just be in a moment where it's, hey guys, I want to talk to you guys about something or
 one individual.
 It can be in staff meetings.
 It's most every staff meeting that I'm teaching.
 The team will come to you, by the way.
 When they see that you have a heart of a teacher, when they see that you're not trying to
 hide junk or trying to hide your flaws or that you're actually vulnerable to jump in
 and teach stuff, then they will come to you.
 They will come to you instead of hiding their own messups and not seeking answers and growth,
 by the way.
 When they know that they can come to you because you're going to teach, especially if you teach
 in the moments when they screw up, what an inspiring thing to do.
 Listen, if you just rail on them because they made a mistake, that's not teaching them.
 But if you help them and teach them and guide them in those moments, they get inspired and
 then they want to bring stuff to you where they screw up instead of hide it because they
 realize, in our business here, we fail.
 My culture here is it is absolutely okay to fail as long as it's not a non-fetal air.
 It's absolutely okay to fail, just don't keep failing at the same thing.
 That's going to frustrate the daylights out of me.
 If you fail, it's perfectly fine.
 Let's learn.
 I'll teach on it, we'll do whatever, but then let's solve the problem.
 One, do you do this?
 Sometimes it's on the fly.
 Sometimes it's at any moment.
 A lot of times it's in meetings.
 And again, caveat here, sometimes there isn't time for 20 minute explanation.
 Sometimes the teaching, teachable moment, may need to be super brief, but take it.
 Make it happen as much as you possibly can.
 Sometimes you just can't get to it.
 That's perfectly fine.
 Make it a culture of teaching, that's going to be way more inspiring.
 If you're not making them successful, then who is?
 Let me ask you that question again.
 If you're not making them successful, then who is?
 If you're not going to remember all five of the unconventional ways and the examples, then go
 to crislicer.com/inspire and you'll get a one-page PDF of the five we covered and examples.
 That's crislicer.com/inspire.
 Making the ways to pour back into your team, guys.
 Make sure you have the pulse of your team as they become successful.
 Guess what?
 By default.
 You become successful as well.
 Also, if you implement a few of these, you're going to see results.
 I know you will see a change in your team immediately and we want to hear about it.
 Commit to inspiring and influencing your team using at least one of these examples above.
 And then let us know what happens.
 Send us an email to podcast@chrisicard.com or go to chrisicard.com and click on the sidebar that
 says "Ask Chris the little icon" and leave us a voice message.
 We love those as well.
 Don't make it three minutes long, but don't make it so short that we don't have enough
 perspective on the information that you're sharing.
 We would love for you to share that with us.
 Share your wins.
 Share your stories of what happens on your team.
 You will see a change in your team when you start pouring into them immediately.
 And you will see a greater inspiration among those when they see that you care about them.
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]