 The common cycle of self-sabotage that you may be experiencing right now that is coming
 up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCordo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 We are so glad you are joining us today.
 We hope that you have had a phenomenal week so far.
 We are enjoying our week as we are talking about something that if you haven't figured this
 out yet, we are crazy about changing people's lives.
 We love helping folks to discover things that help them in their life, help them with
 their families, help them with their careers, help them with their relationship with
 God.
 That's our focus, that's our heart.
 And so today we are talking about something that it's a difficult conversation to have because
 there's just not enough time to talk through it all.
 So we are going to try and talk about a bunch of it.
 Episode 238 was the sixth subtle self-destructive behaviors we miss every day.
 So we are going to put a link in the show notes to that if you have not listened to that,
 that's powerful.
 But today we are talking about the self-sabotage cycle.
 And joining me on the show today is Joel Fortner, extortenair, our head leadership
 coach, all that fun stuff.
 Welcome to the show, Joel.
 It's been a while since you've been on.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Glad to be back.
 I think last time I was on we were talking about core values.
 That is correct, wasn't it?
 Yeah, I think a few months ago.
 Okay, so good to have you back on as always.
 And today we are talking about the self-sabotage cycle because this is something you and
 I see all the time.
 All the time.
 It's funny because we've done over 200 and some odd next level of life.
 So I mean it's somewhere around 250.
 And the interesting thing is we were talking about this the other day that out of all of
 those events, I can think of two events, two events less than 1% of people, two events where
 people did not really have a self-sabotage cycle that I could find.
 Yeah.
 It was one of those things that when it happens, you're like, are you telling me everything?
 Exactly.
 Exactly.
 Am I missing something?
 We do so much to help people to gain perspective and dig in and there's so much stuff that
 we already know from what people are experiencing as they come into the process.
 And then you get these two events and it's like, did I all of a sudden forget how to
 do my job because it's just not there?
 It is just absolutely rare that you find somebody who grew up like Mayberry.
 I mean, no problems.
 And I think even Mayberry had more problems.
 Yeah, it's morning.
 It's morning.
 It's morning.
 But I mean, it's two out of around 250 that everything growing up, I mean, just not issues, no
 problems, all that kind of stuff.
 Doesn't mean that that's not coming in the future because that's how God grows.
 That tends to grow.
 Everybody else self sabotaging cycle one way or another, the weather they've had a really
 great life.
 They're still self sabotage or if they've had terrible things happen in their life.
 It doesn't matter where you are on the spectrum.
 It can again, it can be a phenomenal life with the exception of these two.
 We've had tons of people that have come through life is great.
 It's spectacular.
 But they're still this self sabotage cycle.
 In folks for me, and I'm sure you've discovered this as well, even some folks that have been
 what we call loved too well.
 There's a self sabotage cycle that comes from that.
 Now, as we say this, I'm very aware that a lot of people listening to this are going, how
 was that even possible?
 And it's amazing.
 We have somebody that's a close friend of ours that talks about how he was loved so well
 growing up that he was in his mind, he was the best that everything.
 There wasn't anything he could do that he could fail at.
 Everything he was great at and even if he did fail it he was still the best and everything
 was phenomenal.
 I know his parents and I love them.
 Dearly and they're amazing people.
 They just never realized that doing that, that when he faced the world all of a sudden he
 was normal.
 He was average.
 It really messed him up in this process of now I've got to create a situation or something
 to make me great in other people's eyes because I'm phenomenal in my parents' eyes.
 They think I'm the greatest thing on the planet.
 But other people don't.
 It became kind of an issue in his life.
 This is one of the things about this cycle is that a lot of people can hear the words
 self-sabotage and they think, oh, I don't do that.
 It's all about understanding what self-sabotage is, what it looks like and what it looks like in
 your life.
 That's what we're going to talk about today is that a lot of people will dismiss the words
 because they label that as something else or something else.
 I don't know what else to do that.
 Rather than looking at, no, no, no.
 There's all kinds of different ways.
 What we're going to talk about today is this common cycle of self-sabotage to help you who
 are listening to this identify it if it's there in your life to be able to see, wow, that
 really is there and give you some action steps on what to do with it.
 So let's go ahead and do that right now.
 How about you just break that open?
 What is that explain?
 What it is that we're talking about?
 So here's what we're talking about.
 This common cycle of self-sabotage.
 This all starts with first of all.
 It starts with, for instance, let me paint a picture.
 Someone I was working with.
 I'll tell the story if you will.
 If someone I was working with recently named Lauren, who was like, Jill, you can share anything
 you want to from my event.
 I mean, we had a phenomenal event together.
 And this is something that she struggled with as do most people who come through these events
 and most of us do in our life.
 Is that because of what was in her root system, the way she was trained, conditioned, enabled,
 all through her life.
 She came into adulthood and, for instance, how this shows up in her life today, is that because
 of the amount of approval that she's seeking from other people and worth that comes from
 that, she could learn could receive a single comment, a glance, a look, a discussion with whether
 it's a leader in her company, whether it's a discussion with a customer and then boom,
 she receives it in a certain way.
 There's a loss of self-worth which shows where worth is coming from in that process.
 A loss of control and then what we call a surface-seable responses.
 Now there's surface-seable responses that can be defensiveness or passivity, shut down, become controlling.
 These are all different.
 These are a handful of so many different surface-seable responses that you can detect in your life.
 And so this is something coming after we work together.
 I got some feedback from her and this is one of the things she's now very attuned to is those
 surface-seable responses because they're so prevalent because we're able to break down the cycle
 where you can see, oh, that's what I'm feeling that.
 I'm literally self-sabotaging.
 What I'm feeling defensive, what I'm feeling out of control, when I'm feeling angry or frustrated,
 that's my brain just a lightning-fast process through what I received from this person.
 And now I process it as a loss of worth control and then boom, defensive and the shutdown.
 And there's so many different cycles.
 We have a tendency to help people to see it by drawing it on the board of what they are
 specifically going through.
 Yeah, slowing it down where you can see your brain and action.
 Yeah, and you know, there's a lot of times many of the cycles will have same elements, but
 it's rare that somebody has exactly the same cycles because a lot of people, there's a different
 element to it.
 And by the way, next-level life, we should share this.
 We always call it an event because to us, it's an event.
 But people go, oh, so there's like 50 people in the room?
 No, it's you.
 It's one person or if you decide to bring a spouse with you, it's one on one with either you
 or with myself.
 So it's, we say it's an event, but it's really a one-on-one process that we do over two days.
 And it's completely private, but what we have discovered is most people will they go through
 it, they say, please, if you can use something from this without being getting personal,
 use this to help other people in their lives.
 So that's why this is something that it's easy for us to share.
 This is because Lauren who came through, everybody has such a phenomenal impact that they want
 other people to discover because you're on that side of it.
 When you've not come through the event, it's this, well, I don't know.
 The biggest fear we have, everybody come here, they are known every time.
 The fear of the unknown, every single time somebody walks in this building, every Thursday morning,
 when we're doing events, when we're doing next-level life events, people come in and
 will always ask them, so what do you freight up?
 And they're like, oh gosh, I just don't know what we're going to discover.
 Or if there's somebody who's really strong, oh, I'm not afraid of anything.
 Nothing at all.
 No, no, no, no.
 I just don't know what we're going to find out.
 Okay, so that is something that you're concerned about.
 Well, I mean, maybe, but it's always the same exact thing.
 Some people come in crazy nervous.
 They're just scared.
 And it's like, what are you worried?
 What do you think you're going to discover that you don't already know about you?
 That's going to be so damaging or something like that.
 And then they get within the first part of the morning.
 When we break and come downstairs for lunch and they're just like, oh my gosh.
 And you know, I'll ask your client, you'll ask mine, what do you think so far?
 What are you saying?
 And they're just like, my eyes are just opened.
 I never saw this before.
 I never understood that I was doing these things in my life.
 Yeah, exactly.
 So that's where when you talk about that, it's, we draw out the information.
 So with Lauren, we're drawing out information and organizing it and labeling it and explaining
 because we know what we're doing with this information in a way that produces clarity that
 I never saw that.
 The information's all coming from your life and from your head.
 But being able to slow down this process, this cycle of self sabotage and start to see it, start
 to see the lies that are involved, start to see how deeply rooted worth from people in
 no one in her case and many other's cases, how deeply that is and how much that can shape
 her emotions, can shape her anxiety level, can shape her happiness.
 And when we live that way, when we're seeking worth from people, it produces so much
 anxiety in our life because for instance, if you're my word source or if a leader on Lawrence
 team, for instance, it's her source of worth, there's so much rejection, that's being
 experienced.
 And that's where this cycle really gets going in a person's life is that when they're
 feeling rejected, truth may be they haven't been rejected, but they feel like they're
 being rejected because of a comment because of they're being corrected or they're being taught
 something that is that's going to be helpful for them, but because they were, because they
 were like, no, no, I want, I want to prove myself right now that I did this well.
 Well now you're being taught how you could even make that better.
 Oh, I don't like that.
 That feels like rejection to me because now, because I didn't do good enough.
 And now you're rejecting me and I'm not good enough in your eyes.
 And then down we go into the cycle or that loss of worth now because now you're processing
 it based on lies that say, I'm a failure.
 I'm not good enough.
 And then loss of worth, loss of control, anxiety, defensiveness, stress, whatever it may be, now
 takes over.
 Yeah, and the thing is is that it's not, it's not all, not everybody experiences the same
 exact thing.
 So somebody in that situation might be seeking worth from a leader by saying, am I doing a good
 enough job for you?
 You know, would you pat me on the back and tell me that this has been done correctly?
 And what they're seeking and this is one of the things that, and again, this is one example
 of tons and we'll get into a couple more here.
 But what they're seeking is for somebody to say that they're good enough.
 So many people grew up not being good enough.
 There's so many folks that come through next level of life.
 I would dare say, I probably experienced 40, 50 percent that come through next level of life
 that grew up in a home where they weren't good enough.
 And it wasn't that apparent was coming along and saying, you're not good enough, which that's
 probably about a 5 percent.
 We actually do get a good number of people that are constantly being told by a parent that
 they're not good enough.
 But it's in the actions.
 It's, you know, that the thing that you did wasn't there's nothing that they do is ever good
 enough.
 And the way that their parent did is not in a proper way.
 It's done in a way that builds this belief system inside of the child that nothing they do
 is good enough.
 Well, you roll that over into adulthood and what happens.
 You go to work, you know, looking, you go to school, looking to be good enough with
 other kids.
 You go to college, looking to be good enough.
 You go into a workplace environment, looking to be good enough.
 And what you experience over and over again, even if, you know, like you were saying, if you're
 doing something and I see it and I go, well, let's do it this way over here.
 Or it would be better if you do it this way.
 The training that has been built up, the self-sabotaging cycle that happens is great.
 I'm not good enough.
 And it can be a very subconscious thing that people, and that's one of the greatest things,
 is like you're talking about what's like a Lauren is because now it's conscious.
 What we help people to see is what's happening in their subconscious that they don't even
 realize.
 And now they can see, oh, gosh, I'm receiving that as a rejection that I'm not good enough.
 And really what the other person may be saying is, hey, that's good.
 But a better way of doing this is this.
 And what they hear is, hey, that's good.
 It's not good enough.
 You're not good enough.
 Yeah.
 So do it this way.
 Exactly.
 And if you actually stopped the person leading the situation, they would go, I'm not saying anything
 about them as a person at all.
 But the self-sabotaging cycle is in place.
 It's the difference of saying you're going to come to a meeting and present information.
 You know what?
 This time, my leader's going to love me.
 It's going to be good enough.
 It's going to be awesome.
 And that's my main driver.
 Not the work, not work isn't what not working as unto the Lord, not doing my job, giving
 it my best, going in and in that moment, what if you don't watch carefully, you can plant roots
 of, nope, this is perfect.
 This is going to be awesome.
 This is going to be affirmed and all of a sudden, your expectation is that's what's going
 to happen and then boom.
 Hey, this is good.
 Next time, let's cover this in this.
 Uh-oh, that's not the way I wanted that to go.
 Now let's swing to the other side.
 We talked a moment ago about being loved too much.
 Here's the same thing.
 You're overly affirmed, growing up.
 You can do no wrong.
 You're praised so extensively by your parents, everyone in school, you're the person that's
 like this is the person to be.
 And then you enter the real world and you come to that same meeting.
 Let's go back to that.
 Same type of thing.
 This is going to be awesome.
 I'm going to walk it.
 I'm going to do the best.
 And then boom, you get in someone with experience looks at you and says, so this part was
 good.
 Good job.
 Now let's adjust this, this, this, this, this, this and this.
 Now what happens exactly same self sabotage attacks you, even though you came from what
 we would say was a phenomenal upbringing.
 And the cycle then begins.
 In it can go anyway.
 We're just giving again some some examples of what people experience.
 That situation, what a person might do is if they've been, you know, if they've been trained
 that they are better than everybody else or they're so they can't do any wrong.
 Then what happens is that that becomes again a quasi rejection.
 But really I stamp of you're not as good as you think you are.
 You're not as good as.
 And then it's not a focus on, well, let me do better with the thing.
 Let me grow in the thing and then I can do it better.
 Now becomes I've got to go find somebody in convince them in some sort of way, whether it's
 with my talent, whether it's with my looks, whether it's with my sexuality, whether it's with
 my whatever it is.
 What, you know, I need to go and get somebody to think that I'm amazing right now.
 And a lot of times that's how people get really in trouble is that they make bad decisions
 of I now need to go convince somebody, even if it's a, hey, let's go talk about this
 later because you know they're really not that talented right?
 And for some reason they're our leader and the self sabotaging cycle becomes if I can get
 this person to think I'm something amazing, even if it's at somebody else, the detriment
 of somebody else, then I feel good again.
 And the cycle just continues.
 And you can see how you can keep yourself in terms of your mindset of how you can keep yourself
 locked in that cycle.
 Because if you're in a growth mindset and you're not, for instance, if you're not planning
 routes where you live right now and you're saying, no, no, no, no, I want to learn.
 I want to be taught.
 I want to be coached.
 Well, you've got to be, if that, when this cycle attacks you, all coachability and teach ability
 flies out the window.
 Yeah, it sure does.
 It sure does.
 And we are going to talk about that and give you guys some tools when we come back right
 after this.
 We're almost out of time.
 April 6th, tickets for the next level leadership live event are gone.
 Here's what you need to know.
 The struggles you have in leadership, like making sure your team members are focused on the
 right things, training up leaders inside of your business or solving poor team performance,
 making sure you're compensating people the correct way, getting buy in from leaders and
 team members.
 And a ton more just like this, they all have solutions.
 Join us April 18th through the 20th at the next level leadership live event and get the answers.
 Get the solutions.
 Get your leadership roadmap as well as the rapid implementation that you need to turn around
 and go put this in place as soon as you get home.
 You'll experience two and a half days getting the information you need to change your leadership,
 your team and your business.
 It's going to be detailed, practical and full of how to's.
 Also, we have a phenomenal VIP ticket option where you get bonus content, bonus mastermind
 sessions, live Q&As with me where you can ask anything you want to and your meals are taking
 care of as well.
 So don't miss out on that.
 This event comes around once a year and it will transform your leadership and your team guaranteed.
 Go to Chrissacurter.com and click on the big banner.
 We have a special discount for podcast listeners.
 So use the code podcast when you check out to say $50 right now.
 Take it's a Ghana Pro 6.
 So if you're planning on joining us, get those tickets and your discount today.
 And we are back and we are talking about the self-sabotage cycle.
 What happens when something hits us in a way that we've been trained that tells us something
 wrong with us or causes us to feel out of control or causes us to feel not worthy, not good
 enough, any of those things.
 And I'm joined by Joel Fortner with me and we're talking kind of through this process and on
 the front side of this, the front side of the show, we kind of hit a lot on feeling rejected
 and you know seeking that worth from people by seeking them to tell you that you're good enough.
 There's another side, there's many sides but the ones that we're just covering today,
 the seeking worth from man to get them to tell you that you're good enough is one aspect
 that we see a lot. Another one that we see a lot is the control aspect, which is the and folks
 don't ever, they almost never recognize that this is them, that they do this type of stuff.
 Where it is, I'm trying to control situations by being smarter, being better read, being
 more intelligent.
 You know, there's a lot of times that I will try and use the talents or the knowledge that
 I have to prove that I'm better than somebody else.
 And use specific conversations and maybe talk down to people, be kind of sending, make comments
 that make people feel like they're stupid.
 And a lot of times folks don't recognize that this is something that they do and they're not
 realizing where it's coming from.
 So if I'm in a situation where I try to use knowledge, well look at what I know about this,
 you know, I know a lot of people, even people that may share blood with me, that will use
 situations, do not literally, not literally, that will use situations to try and make people
 look stupid.
 Like they've become experts at walking people into a question that they've got an answer
 that the person will usually answer something, you know, just off the bat and then like, oh,
 but it's not true.
 But that's not so, is that what you think?
 Oh, but it's this over here.
 And it's this kind of, I want to trick you.
 I want to trap you.
 I want to get you into this place.
 And it's not because they really want the other person to feel stupid.
 It's because they want to feel better about themselves.
 Yeah, exactly.
 So I was in our mastermind program, we do a lot of coaching and I was coaching a leadership
 team this past week.
 And they set up this coaching call because they were struggling with a team member who is exactly
 what you're talking about.
 So everyone brings their root system to work.
 This is why I love what we do in both life and business and why businesses are being transformed
 because leaders and team members eyes are being opened up to what we're talking about.
 Because so many owners or leaders are sending groups of their people to their next level
 of life.
 Through these through these events.
 I was helping a leadership team who was coming to the plate, basically oversimplifying saying
 not the same event at the same time.
 Yeah, it's a good coaching call.
 There's three of them on a call and we're talking about help us with this particular team
 member.
 Well, they have already basically pitted this team member is the problem.
 Right.
 Very dangerous leaders.
 And so fast forward through a long coaching call here of helping them gain perspective.
 But they were experiencing their team member who was very much as you're describing coming
 from a place of where, because of what we're trying to see, you can see into this person's
 past.
 You can see how this person doesn't feel good enough.
 You can see their lack of worthiness.
 You can see how they're compensating through being dominant, controlling, and having to be
 right.
 Yeah.
 Now they're value is what naturally motivates them.
 Their root system was all coming to ahead of now seeing this person, of guiding them to
 see this person.
 And they just stood there or sat there silently on the call.
 Because it's like, whoa, my whole world just got shifted because of now how I'm viewing
 my team member who I thought, who I can turn into a monster very quickly.
 Well, because they're aggressive because they're dominant.
 You don't ever recognize, say, this other person I'm coaching, do you see, hey, you're
 actually a threat to that person?
 All this stuff you don't see that's going on internally, that when you can see it, here's
 the beautiful thing.
 It leads to compassion.
 It leads to letting it break your heart.
 Now you may need healthy boundaries.
 Exactly.
 Which is key.
 Yeah.
 No, this is crazy.
 No, this is creating excuses.
 Never.
 None of this is saying, because that's what people are looking for.
 People are looking to say, tell me that this person is wrong.
 Exactly.
 Look at what this person is doing.
 We do a lot of stuff with couples talking through their marriage and everything.
 And it's like, hey, help them to see how wrong they are.
 Instead of, hey, let me help you to see how you both contribute are coming at this because
 you're focused on yourself, you're focused on where you get worth from.
 And so you become this battle.
 I think it was Larry Burkett who said, you know, two people just like get married, one of them
 is not needed.
 You know, we see that's a joke that Dave used to use all the time from, I think it was Larry
 who came up with that.
 And it's so true.
 You know, you opposites do attract.
 But here's what you have to understand.
 We're opposites why because we're coming at things from different angles.
 So for both seeking worth, there's a really good chance.
 I'm seeking it one way.
 You're not fulfilling it the way that I'm seeking it.
 You're seeking it another way.
 I'm not fulfilling it the way that you're seeking it.
 We clash.
 Or both bad people.
 If we're both bad people.
 Yeah, there's a line.
 But you're worse than I am.
 And I'm worse than you are.
 And it's all about this.
 Help this person to see that I'm the right one.
 Which is not what we do.
 Exactly.
 We don't give them excuses.
 We don't make monsters.
 We don't make victims.
 What we do is we help them to see, let's get you as an individual healthy because you can't
 be healthy and emerge if you're choosing to be unhealthy because the other person is being unhealthy.
 Be healthy as we get two individuals healthy or just an individual healthy, it changes their
 whole life.
 It changes their perspective when they walk out going, oh my gosh, I never knew that I have
 a victim mentality.
 Which by the way, the most painful thing in any event.
 Oh, that can be, it can be a good punch to someone.
 Which is probably 60, 70% of the people that come through discover that they have a victim mentality.
 Here's the thing, guys.
 It's sometimes that's very hard to identify myself.
 But you can see it in other people in a hard way.
 Which is what happens is people sitting in the chair go, I've hated that about people.
 I hate that in other people.
 I see victim mentality.
 I see it.
 I know that they're doing it.
 I hate it.
 I was so proud that I didn't have a victim mentality.
 It's like, what do you think now?
 I'm a crud.
 I love the people to hear it.
 It's like, okay, this is probably going to be a good punch.
 Then it's like, boom.
 You have people who sit there and look at you or you have people who go, oh, oh heck no.
 No.
 And the arm hits the chair and they're like, no, I'm like, be that way.
 Exactly.
 Don't like that about yourself.
 Understand.
 Understand where it's coming from.
 It's not a no of, I don't agree with you.
 Oh, it's a no of like, no, I'm not, I'm not a victim.
 I'm not going to be that.
 I'm moving past it.
 Something's going to have to change because I will not be that.
 That's the thing I hate the most.
 And the thing is people don't understand, you hate the most.
 You hate the things and other people that you hate the most about yourself.
 And so it's easy to pick out victim mentality and somebody, one you happen to be a victim.
 When you have that mentality.
 And we did a whole show on that as well.
 In my world, there's two different types of victim mentality.
 So there's another, I don't even remember what that was.
 Maybe we can throw that in the show notes as well.
 So how do we stop the spiral?
 So here's some action steps you can take.
 First of all, I think listen to this episode more than once.
 Yes, definitely.
 Try to identify.
 Chris and I are trying to help you identify this in your life.
 That is key to be able to see how I do that.
 Now to move past it.
 If you're a self aware enough to be able to say and take personal response,
 a ability to absolutely I am dealing with.
 It doesn't, it doesn't mean you're not getting it.
 We what to the break and it has like a yep that and that and that and that and she lives in this.
 I'm feeling she's a part of this and it's so funny that if you're not self aware,
 then this whole episode just is like, oh, it's about somebody else you know.
 Oh, I know somebody who's like, yeah, if you're listening to this, I'm assuming you're pretty
 teachable and coachable.
 You're listening to an education podcast.
 So don't plant roots.
 Be coachable and teachable and look for this because that's probably in your life somewhere.
 If you can't identify right now, work to identify it and work on being self aware.
 So number one, when it comes to action steps is you've got to check where your worth is coming from in life.
 If your worth is coming from accomplishments or people, this cycle is going to be in your life.
 Oh, forever.
 Always every five minutes of every day.
 It will never break.
 This is a key place to focus is where is my worth coming from.
 So our greatest worth comes from God, our greatest worth comes from how immensely how much he loves us as people.
 As his created and the greatest example of that that screened his love to the world was Christ sacrifice on the cross.
 Which we just celebrated.
 That a lot of people see that is just the day of sadness and it's a day of great joy.
 Here's let me just jump in with this because I was watching a Ravi Zacharias as like a virtual mentor for me.
 Somebody I just absolutely love and think has done a phenomenal job in this world.
 He had posted of an Egyptian Christian teaching in Egypt.
 Wow, that's full circle.
 Right. So yeah.
 So I'm watching this thing and there's a piece that he's talking about Christ in the cross.
 And there's a piece that he says that Jesus went to the cross.
 He would not allow the cross to come to him.
 So when as Judas brought the the guys to arrest him, Jesus didn't stand there.
 He actually walked to them.
 The guy who's so who the guy who's so crazy about us, the God who loves us so much went to the worst, most painful, most humiliating death because of his immense love for us.
 Absolutely. He didn't stand by and wait for it to happen. He went to it.
 That is where my worth is. That's my worth.
 Keep going.
 Yeah, it's yeah.
 We can say we're probably our favorite topic to talk about.
 The more you get into it, guys, the more it will become your favorite thing to talk about if it's not already.
 The more you realize it, that's the thing.
 And as I think there's so many of you listening right now that you love God, you believe in God.
 And some of you don't because you're looking at human beings.
 Some of you who do not believe in God in Christ and salvation is because of what humans did in your life.
 Folks, let me tell you something right now, never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever.
 Label God by what he's created.
 Stop looking at the created and thinking that that is the creator.
 Because it is not.
 You have got to, if somebody has affected you, think of the things that we're talking about right now.
 There's one way to the afterlife.
 There's one process. There's one way.
 God has already given it to you.
 He's already explained it.
 There's a way where either going to spend eternity with him or eternity in pain with Adam.
 But human beings, human beings have screwed that up for you.
 Because you've sought this worth.
 You've sought this thing and maybe somebody has rejected you or abused you or treated you horribly or maybe you've been molested or raped,
 which we've had many women and men that have been that have come through this process to get freedom in their life.
 But they have been stuck with this process of not understanding thinking that because the created says these things.
 And people always say those that don't believe always say well, "Tarches full of hypocrites.
 Where else should they be? They're not perfect. They never will be until they're with Jesus."
 Right? Down here we saw.
 We make mistakes every day. We send every single day.
 We're just supposed to be very, we're just supposed to be in love with his love for us and then trying to be obedient to that.
 But people get so confused with this and they wonder, people come in here and they wonder,
 "How do you guys have this feeling? This hope, this love, and this building?
 It's because we're not getting our worth from man. We're shifting that.
 We're seeking God's love and we're focusing on God's love.
 I'm just going, I'm a preacher.
 I preach it, brother.
 So I'll hit this really quick because I feel inclined to share it.
 So talking about the letting how you view people and experience people,
 especially when you're growing up and how your parents treat you,
 which you can end up drawing a parallel to how you view God.
 So I was working with someone recently.
 I could see where things were going in his event and I had him write down on the sheet of paper.
 Hey, describe God for me. When you're struggling specifically with him, describe him for me.
 And I said, "Okay, then I covered up the sheet.
 Our is later.
 Our is later.
 We walk through a lot more perspective and his upbringing and all the stuff that's coming from his past.
 Because I could see where it was going.
 And when he struggled with his one of his parents, what that looked like.
 And then I revealed the sheet.
 Do you see the parallel?
 So powerful for them to see that.
 And it was emotional for them to see it.
 How much they were allowing the created the person to shape how they're actually viewing God
 when they're struggling, especially when God wants nothing more than to draw us closer.
 Guys, we are clay pots. There is a God who creates clay pots.
 He's the creator. He can do whatever he wants to with us. He can fill us. He can break us. He can do whatever he wants to.
 Stop looking at the clay pots for your worth.
 Stop looking at the clay pot next to you for your worth.
 Stop looking at something that's been created for your worth.
 Look to the one who created you for your worth.
 Find out how much he loves you and how crazy he is about you.
 That's where you got to start.
 Oh, geez.
 We don't have enough time.
 We don't have enough time.
 So let's hit these other stuff.
 That's the first step worth.
 It's number one.
 So we've got three more hours of the steps.
 If we can't tackle that one, we're always going to be held back in life.
 Number two,
 write down the lies that you recognize you tell yourself.
 Write down what are those things I tell myself when I'm struggling.
 What I'm feeling anxious or stressed with.
 Three, one of you tells yourself lies.
 We all be one of those people that says, well, I don't do that. Yes, you do.
 It may take some people more time to get to them.
 But write down what are the lies I tell myself.
 And then write down what are the truths.
 The truths may not be the opposite of the lie.
 It's what's the truth about this.
 Give an example of a common line and what would be a great truth.
 I'm not good enough.
 Yeah.
 Truth is,
 God loves me immensely and send his son to die for me.
 That's how much he loves me.
 Yeah, I may not be good enough for man.
 I am, I am not my works because I'm, I'm an imperfect human being who sends every single day.
 I am good enough.
 The God of the universe is who makes them and makes trees on the weekend.
 Thought that I was good enough for him to take on that death for me.
 I'm good enough because of that.
 And then you affirm yourself with those truths.
 You tell yourself those truths.
 You train yourself to believe those truths.
 And it learned it teaches you to knock down lies.
 It also when you know your lies and you've got them stone cold in your head.
 Guess what?
 You can actually battle in the moment when you're struggling.
 You can realize, wow, oops, surface up response.
 I'm feeling defensive right now.
 Right.
 That's an indicator of something more going on.
 No one did anything to you.
 Now that's a place now.
 What am I believing right now?
 Why am I feeling this way?
 Which is another key step to take.
 Turn inward.
 When you're struggling, when you're feeling angry,
 when you're feeling frustrated, when you're feeling stressed, worried defensive,
 all these things that we struggle with, turn inward and ask, why am I struggling?
 And then go to your lies.
 What lies am I believing right now?
 And battle.
 We don't say talk to the lies.
 It's a battle.
 It's a fight.
 You're under attack.
 You're believing stuff about yourself.
 It's not true.
 Battle it with truth.
 Get aggressive.
 Yeah.
 Battle them down.
 Probably not probably.
 My, the lie that affects me the most is I've hurt someone.
 I've been trained in my life.
 To believe when somebody else is out of control.
 And they attack me like crazy to tell me that I'm there problem.
 I'm the one who's hurt them.
 I'm the one.
 This is how I was trained to believe.
 And therefore I've gone through life thinking that if somebody was,
 if something was going wrong, I must have hurt them.
 And that's not truth.
 Now what we want you guys to focus on right now is the truth that helps you to get through
 in the battle right now.
 What we want for you is on the other side of the next level of life and even further down the road is the
 ability to see what's going on.
 So now I see people who are out of control trying to gain control by telling me lies about how I'm hurting them.
 And instead of me having to battle the, I'm not this person.
 I'm not doing this thing.
 You know, here's the truth in the matter.
 I'm able to look at the person and go, here's where they are.
 Here's what they're struggling with.
 This is a person feeling out of control.
 Still put in healthy boundaries.
 Still very quickly.
 Whop stop?
 Nope.
 That's not truth.
 But try and help them in the process because sometimes what you don't realize is that somebody may be telling you you're not good enough.
 Somebody may be trying to convince you.
 You're not good enough.
 And if they are doing that, they're doing it because they're being unhealthy.
 So also take that into account.
 And you're not on fixing you right now in this moment because this is something you can do right now as we go through something like a next level of life.
 We can help you to see other people.
 So you may be wondering, hey, Joe, why else were you on this podcast?
 And so, so I wanted to be on the podcast because as a next level of life facilitator with Chris, I'm hosting a webinar for those of you who want to take a next step forward in life change and growth.
 I'm hosting a free live webinar on April 5 on Thursday 4 PM Central.
 So if you want to jump in on that, get ready.
 Now let's talk about this for a quick second because this is a behind the scenes on the event, which is this is hilarious.
 The reason why we're doing this, you did one of these to help out some folks to just see, actually,
 to take them behind the scenes, people are sitting in our events. You know, I'm sitting there and we've got somebody in my event who goes, yeah, I just did that thing and oh my gosh, that helped me to understand what actually happens in this event.
 I'm like, oh, we felt like we share this pretty darn well.
 Sometimes we don't. Sometimes it doesn't make sense.
 Yeah, that's what it means.
 And so that's your goal.
 Yeah, because on a call when I'm talking to someone, there's this isn't 45 minute call.
 And there's a lot of information we're talking about. So on this webinar, you're going to learn more about next-sever life. What the process is like.
 I'm going to take you through the history of how we even started doing these things. Why we do it, which you're learning a lot,
 let's just listening to this podcast.
 And then I'm going to walk through the entire, the 11 step process of next-sever life, just to paint the picture.
 So you can see the process, ask me questions, learn about it, hear from other people, hear their questions, learn in the process.
 And then I'm not going to try to sell you anything. I'm going to show you how to move forward if you decide you want to do it.
 Help you to see the things that will help you.
 It's going to help you.
 Exactly. And then if it's something you want to do in your life, this is going to be information.
 It's going to help you choose to do it.
 To be able to understand what's this whole thing about and be able to see the process and let me answer your questions.
 But we're going to have a good time. Last time I did it, the feedback was really fantastic.
 We had people on who actually have come through the event who chose to go in and attend the home,
 go inside next-sever life webinar.
 And they were able to, now that they've been through next-level life, they had a different perspective that they were able to share with other people.
 Oh, absolutely. That was some of the most unexpected and powerful stuff.
 Was hearing them talk about, hey, this is what's happened since then.
 Right. This is now what's happening in my marriage today.
 This is now what's happening in my relationship.
 This is now where I'm at in my relationship with God.
 Yeah. So powerful. So how do they get to be a part of that?
 So to sign up, very simple, go to crystalcardo.com/strongerlife.
 All one word. So crystalcardo.com/strongerlife. Sign up and then the information will come to you in your email.
 Stronger life.
 But stronger life. Just in case.
 All right. Folks. We want to see you on there.
 We want to see you get the information of what it's like to be inside this event.
 And again, we just thought you were going to do one of those just to help some people out.
 And we'll see back with so good for folks that were like, well, let's do it again.
 It was powerful. So make sure crystalcardo.com/strongerlife.
 And that will be Thursday for April 5th at 4 p.m.
 And we want to see you there. So hopefully guys, this helps you out today.
 Keep in mind what we just celebrated and should be celebrating every single day, which is our opportunity for eternity.
 Keep that in mind. Come and get the tools that you need.
 Our goal here is to change every life we possibly can and give you the tools to make this life better.
 If you're wondering how we're able to do life differently than most people, it's because we have the tools to do so.
 So come get those tools. As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life.
 And enjoy this.
 I'll see you in the next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]