 [Music]
 Welcome to the Chris Lookarto Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover
 that business is what you do, not who you are.
 [Music]
 Yes, again, we appreciate it. We love having you around. And we look forward to hearing from
 you today. We are having some folks call in and ask their questions and I'm going to help them as
 much as I possibly can. But before we get to that, a quote from Napoleon Hill, "Strench
 and Growth come only through Continuous Effort and Struggle." You leaders out there.
 Those of you that are out there trying to grow or are currently struggling, let me help you
 understand that is going to produce more growth. It's going to produce more growth, more strength,
 more character, the more that you suffer through, the more that you struggle through,
 the more effort that you continuously put out there, the more you will grow.
 How do I know? Been doing it a long time. Helped tons of people do it for a long time.
 For those that sit on their thumbs and wait for things to happen,
 strength and growth are not going to come. But for those that are willing to bust it, those that are
 willing to be diligent, those that are willing to continuously give effort and struggle through stuff
 are going to grow. The greatest way we grow is through, I know it's painful, suffering,
 suffering. The funny thing about a wine grape, which we discuss many times in our next level
 life, and our strategy is that if you feed it all the water, it wants. You give it all the sun,
 it wants, it becomes a lazy couch potato. But if you allow it to suffer, if you allow it to struggle,
 if you hold back some of that water, if you can't appear correctly, then what happens is it fights,
 it fights, it fights, it fights, it becomes a much better grape. As Napoleon Hill said,
 strength and growth come only through continuous effort and struggle. So if you're working hard,
 growth is on its way. Hopefully that helps you out today. Next is Andrea.
 Andrea, welcome to the show. Thank you. Hi. Hi. How are you?
 How wonderful. Good. So glad you're joining me today. What can I help you with?
 Well, on the top of my mind this morning was how to, how to time manage so that I can have the right
 balance of my own professional development, along with the time that I spend managing the team
 and managing the hospital and trying to figure everything else out that goes with a small business.
 Okay. It seems like my own professional development just ends up taking a back seat to everything else.
 Sure. Great question. Big question. There's a lot to that. Is there something specific?
 So, well, is there something specific or thinking of that you want to do,
 personally, are you thinking of events or retreats or is there anything on your mind?
 I'm thinking less about the events and retreats as to the daily kind of working it in with the
 daily grind and the daily routine. Daily is going to be tough on personal, additional personal growth
 and how while you're running a business. Your own business? I dare. Okay. So, daily is tough.
 Weekly is tough but very, very doable. Once you get outside of that and you get to,
 once they then I just think people are, they don't understand how much they're missing out on. So,
 so to try and tackle this thing as a whole, the personal development side, you cannot be a quality
 leader. If you are not constantly pouring into yourself. I was talking about John Maxwell years ago
 and one of the things that we were talking about was I was sharing with him how in my early days I
 was wanted to be the best person in the business. I was wanted to be the best, no matter what I was doing,
 I wanted to be the best at it. I quickly realized early on in my 20s that if I was the best person in the room
 then I, that's as far as I could go. All I could do is just top the people in there and I could only
 learn from myself and he made the comment and he said that he had learned that if he was at the
 head of the class he was in the wrong classroom that he wanted to be in the classroom,
 sitting under the feet of people that are beyond him, some matter at the same place of him and some
 that he could help out as well. So with that in mind, the concept of what you're asking,
 you have to have constant personal growth. You have to have constant leadership growth. You're
 already aware that you want to try and do that. So for those that are listening, if you are not
 doing something consistently, grow you, it's the same as business. If you're not growing your
 dying, I've kind of feel the same way when it comes to your leadership. If you're not growing your
 leadership, you're dying because things are changing and your team needs to be poured into. So
 getting spending the time is the difficult part. For you to be able to find the time in your week,
 even in your day. The days, like I said, it's tough. So I'm going to try and focus on just the week.
 There's got to be a set amount of time that you set aside that you can focus on this. So one of the
 things that we do is we have a bunch of leaders that are in our next level mastermind group. That
 meets every single week. And when they are coming in, it's a tough thing for them to look at that time slot
 and go, how in the world am I going to find this time to do this? Not realizing that it's not the
 time that's the issue. There is a great fantastic opportunity for you to grow immensely, solve things in
 your business if you can make the time to happen. If you can make the time to do it. So we help them
 to discover what we call killing the leadership crazy psycho, which is there's so much work, there's so much
 to be done that you have to discover what's the right stuff, the best stuff as well as how do you get
 stuff off your plate? You've got to take a look at what you're doing in your role. How am I operating
 my self as a team member? Are the things that I'm doing the most important things that I can be doing?
 Am I focusing on too many tasks instead of focusing on leading? Do I have too much stuff on my
 plate that I should be delegating to somebody else? If so, then why am I not doing that? Is it because
 I'm struggling with delegation? I don't know how to delegate properly. Is it because I don't trust
 people? So looking at all of those things, that's where you start to make your decisions on what you
 can do with your week. How can I find an hour or two a week to get into my time? What would be in the
 day? If you're looking at nighttime, if you don't have a family, that's really easy to do. That's
 not difficult at all. If you don't have a life, it's easy to get leadership time in at nighttime.
 But if you don't, then if you do have a family, then obviously that's going to be something that
 you need to weigh out. What is the most important thing to me focusing for me to be focusing on?
 You gotta take care of your household first or your worst and on the labor. So you have to spend time with
 your family. You have to spend time growing them, helping them, leading them all that kind of fun stuff.
 So with that information, where do you feel like you are struggling on finding the time in your week?
 I feel so I'm in that crazy cycle and I've struggled with finding and hiring the right people.
 So that as I begin to delicate, I learn that it's a good thing instead of spinning my wheels
 ending up doing the job anyway. Right. So is the struggle has anybody taught you how to
 have a great hiring process? In other words. Nope. Okay. So it's possible that you're behind
 and you're looking for somebody to get in the seat. You take a few people in. You try and drop them in
 the seat. That doesn't buy fire kind of stuff. In the past we were baptism by fire. We're just beginning
 to have some type of a training process. Okay. Good. So that is moving in the right direction.
 The biggest key is in that hiring process of making sure that you're getting people who can do
 the job that you expect. So you cannot properly delegate to somebody if they cannot do what it is
 that you're expecting them to do. So in other words, there are certainty members that you're going to
 bring on that are on a lower level that are inexperienced that you're going to spend a ton of time with
 teaching and growing. And then there are other folks that you need to bring in and a medium to higher
 level that have experience. They know what they're doing. They should be able to take things these things
 on and run with them. What level do you feel like you're looking for? What do you tend to hire?
 The level that I'm still missing are people ready to run with the ball. Okay. And the difficulty
 in finding them is. appears to be competition. We've got a lot of corporate hospitals in our area,
 corporate hospital means that they can afford to offer higher pay grade and benefits. Then I'm
 able to offer. So I just don't tend to, I don't seem to be able to hold on to or gather the
 applicants who may actually have the skills. They may not. They may just be claiming to. But I
 don't seem to be able to attract those people to our environment. Okay. So let me ask you this. And
 we didn't mention what you do. You run an animal hospital, a cat hospital. Yes. So obviously,
 for any team member, they're going to be looking for the benefits, especially the younger folks. They're
 going to be especially looking for the benefits. Is there something you can offer that the corporate
 locations can't? In other words, can you offer growth? Can you offer the ability to come on and
 learn from you and be able to open up their own business? Do is there things that you can do a training
 process or anything else that would be something that is more attractive to folks that may have some
 skills? Well, we can do on the job training and they can ultimately reach a level where they are
 more qualified. They may or may not remain with us. So perhaps one of the places we're not going
 right mean there's a lot more to learn here because I'm constantly teaching the teams. Since we're
 a small team and we work closely together. But what we do have is others and the finances when you're
 at work, you've got a better lifestyle than when you're working in the grind. So we do have some culture
 that is that differs from the large corporate places. I don't know if it's enough though.
 So those are things that would be promoting like crazy. And the reason why is is because there are
 people out there that don't want to go to work at the corporate places, especially personality style
 wise. You will find that there are some folks out there that personality style, they don't want to
 be in that corporate place, they want to be in a place where they feel loved and taking care of and taught
 and have the opportunity grow. So I would promote your culture and your opportunities like crazy when
 it comes to hiring. To see if you can't get that level of person that has some experience.
 And I would make that a big thing. You have to separate yourself out from the corporate gigs because
 for the over there it's just the money technically right?
 >> Right. >> You don't for the money in the benefits. So your benefits need to be something greater than
 just the money. So I would focus on that on getting those hires in. And the meantime what I would
 do is focus heavily on what is your training process, the one that's going to get people to a place
 where they can run on their own. So looking at it, how long does it take for you to bring somebody
 and decently new and get them up to speed? >> I'm going to say three months to be up to speed where
 they're useful to me. >> And how much of the stuff that is on your plate could come off if you had
 more people that were useful? >> Wow. Maybe 30 to 40%.
 >> So this becomes our biggest focus right now. The focus on how do we make sure that we get
 the right people in place even if it becomes a strong training to get people up to speed? So we can get some
 stuff off of your plate. The sooner we can do that and you can run the business by leading the team,
 make them successful. Again, not focusing on the 30 to 40% tasks that you shouldn't be doing in the first
 place, then we can create more revenue. There's a lot of things that can start happening here.
 This starts to give you time to focus on your personal growth as well. This is a great start toward that.
 Understanding that if I can get the right person in place, if it's somebody who have to
 train if I have to train for three months, even to six months, at least by three months, I should be
 getting some stuff off of my plate and I can start back filling it with the things that I need to focus on.
 That will grow as a leader. Too many people want to just go, okay, throw somebody in the seat,
 dump some stuff on them and great. Now I'll move over here and move my energy over into this area
 and it becomes a colossal failure. So speed is not the most important thing.
 Then that's how that's what I would be looking at if I'm in your specific situation. Does all that
 make sense? It makes complete sense. The second thing is what you're looking for for personal growth.
 You need to make sure that you're researching and finding something I'm always going to
 suggest the accountability more than anything. The biggest areas that leaders struggle is not in a lack of
 books. There's a ton of information out there. The information is not the issue. The information
 is there's nobody on their level that is in their life that can hold them accountable to the things
 that they need to do. So if you look at what we're doing in our, this is shameless plug for our
 next level mastermind. The folks that are in this thing are blowing it up because every single week
 they're meeting with somebody who's pushing them and calling them out. Now this isn't in a bad way.
 This is the great thing about what we do is we don't have any judgment in this stuff. We're not
 we don't have people coming in, beating people up, bringing that stuff. Everybody they become a family and
 they start pushing each other to do more and do better and they meet with us once a quarter.
 So by coming here we push them to do their quarterly initiatives. So our most leaders are out there doing
 up a yearly goals as I do my air quotes, yearly goals that goes in a drawer somewhere and then they
 hope that they hit them. We actually have people pushing for 90 day initiatives. These are the things
 I'm going to get done and they are getting tons done in that period of time. So you're looking for
 somebody that's going to push you. Somebody who understands where you are. Somebody who understands the level.
 So your level or higher that somebody who's got the experience or who has been there, it can actually
 push you to say, okay, I know what you're going through. Here's something to focus on or what are the
 things that you're trying to get done and I'll hold you accountable to making sure that you get those things done.
 The accountability is huge. Now for those of us with a church background, we tend to hate the
 word accountability because it's gotten screwed up in the Christian world and it has become this thing where
 people beat you over the head with a book and that is not what we're talking about here. That's not the
 way that God intended it. Instead, it is actually taking interest and not getting things for yourself
 but holding somebody else accountable in a process to make sure that they're successful. When you have
 that type of accountability, I'm telling you, Andrew, it is phenomenal what you can get done.
 Because now it's like the old Jenny Craig thing, right? I say old, I'm assuming Jenny Craig is still around.
 I'm going to tell you how well that scale and you know that people are going to be holding you accountable
 in the process so you get the things done you need to get done. So that's a very minor way of
 explaining it but it's power and it's so get information that you need to learn. Do things like
 you're doing by watching great lessons as I promote myself. Create events and things get that information
 but don't stop at the information. You have to implement and you have to, you don't have to but I
 suggest that you have somebody that holds you accountable on your implementation. A lot of times
 family members don't understand what you're going through. They don't know what it's like to lead a
 business. They don't know what it's like to run a business and so sometimes they're information,
 their suggestions are worth what you paid for which is nothing. So it's difficult sometimes if you have
 family members that are trying to give you help on running your business and they don't they've never
 run a business. If you have family members who have run a business or have led something like this
 great, hopefully they should understand and they could speak into your life if not find a group or find
 some people that are walking through what you're walking through because that's where you're going to get
 your greatest amount of success and greatest amount of help and hope. Does all that make sense?
 Questions on that? It makes complete sense. Family is going to always have their own agenda just
 by virtue of being a family member. Absolutely. It sucks but it's understandable.
 They want to be able to tell you what you need to do but they don't understand what it is that you're doing.
 So unfortunately they're just not able to help out and they do have their own agenda on that as well.
 And sometimes it's the agenda is well you work too much or you do you're not doing this right or
 let me tell you what's wrong with you. That's never ever, ever going to help you to be effective.
 You need folks that are coming alongside of you going, girl do this, push here. Hey, I'm seeing
 a struggle over here. How can I help? Hey, I'm praying for you. Whatever it is, you need that type of
 that family in essence that will push you along. Mask another question. You may.
 When you're talking about quarterly initiatives and goals and things like that, this is a
 novice question. Are those initiatives always going to be specific financial goals or they're going
 to be potentially steps towards financial goals? Yeah. I already on that. Great question.
 We are pushing in many areas. We're pushing finances tends to be one of the lesser areas.
 We're pushing for strategy. We're pushing for culture. We're pushing for operations.
 We're pushing for people in the areas of their business that they need to grow or solve or do.
 So if you take a business, that everything is running incredibly well. All right, where do we need to
 grow? Because if we're not growing, we're dying. So we will focus on what's the growth. And by the way,
 when I say initiatives, we actually every quarter sit down with our folks and go through all aspects,
 not just one. So we don't just go, all right, we're only going to focus on strategy here. We focus on
 all areas of the business. And then we say, what's the most important things that we've got to focus on
 for growth? So if, like I say, if your business is running really well, there's no problems whatsoever,
 everything is great. Well, then we're focusing heavily on strategy alone. Strategy, marketing, what do we do?
 How do we grow the business? What are going to be the things that we need to backfill as we continue to
 grow the business? Hires all of that kind of stuff. If there's struggles, what is the struggle? What's the
 issue? How do we put all of our focus that is available? So we don't take the energy away from the
 things that are working. But how do we put focus on the things that need to be fixed and solve those issues
 right there? So what are the things we're going to do over the next 90 days? If it's a sales issue,
 some people might be struggling in sales. Everything. What do we need to do to solve the sales problem?
 Are we missing hiring? What do we need to solve the hiring problem? For every time somebody
 new comes into our program, they're always struggling in a few key areas. One of those being the leadership
 crazy cycle. How do we get this done as fast as possible? How do we get you out of this cycle so that we can
 get you on to solving the other areas? So those initiatives are whatever is the most important things
 for us to be focusing on on the next 90 days. Now this is a part of something that we have done that's
 even bigger. Jim Collins, I don't know if he coined the term but he used the term "behag" and
 good to great big hairy audacious goals. What you're talking about something that is like a 10-year or
 a industry changing focus. So as people come in, we help them to look at 10 years from now.
 What do you want that is industry changing or business changing that is huge? Like what can you do?
 So to give you an example, Twitter was to be the world's news at a pulse or something like that.
 It was like to be information on the world at a pulse. They're not a news channel. They don't
 claim to be news and I shouldn't have said the word news. They are information at a pulse. So at any
 short period of time, if you want to find out what's going on anywhere in the world, you can go to
 Twitter and at least get 140 characters on it. That was their be-hag. They hit it. That was not an issue.
 They are that for sure. So looking at that type of stuff, we've got one of our clients that is wanting to
 be the best and largest of their industry in this large area of their state. That they want to be that
 within 10 years. Okay fantastic. Now we back it up and we focus on a yearly goal. What are your
 yearly initiatives and then predict that down into what am I going to do in the next 90 days?
 So everything is pushing towards this much bigger picture down the road, but we're doing it in increments.
 Most folks go, "Yeah, I want to be the biggest business in my area in 10 years. Absolutely."
 And then they don't do anything toward it. They just hope that it happens someday. For us,
 we help you to focus on, if I do these things, this will push me toward this, which will push me
 toward this, which will get me to that goal. And the thing that we have discovered in our groups
 is that people are getting uns more accomplished than they ever have because of the accountability process.
 So if it's, again, whatever it is, if it's solving a problem, if we were taking a look at your hiring
 issue, we would bring that and not saying that you have a hiring issue, but the need for hiring.
 We would bring that into the group, guys, here's what I'm looking at. What do I need?
 Help me to push on this. What do I got to do? What are your insights? Give me some advice.
 And push push push, which would push you to getting the right people in the door.
 And if we have to combat something like the corporate places, how do we, what is it that we're going
 to throw in to combat that? Here's this information. Let's get somebody in here. Get them hired.
 Get them going. Now let's start the training side. So you could look at that as the next 90 days.
 If I want to make sure I have the right person, it should, 90 days is a good hiring period.
 This is going to be what I focus on heavily in this quarter. But it's not the only thing.
 You also might focus a little bit on marketing. You might focus on a larger footprint right now.
 Where we bought the building next door, we're expanding. And so that was a larger footprint for us.
 We've been talking about this since last year. Where we said, okay, we're growing much faster than
 we thought we would. We're going to have to do something to solve this issue. And so finally,
 as we put that plan in place, we started working toward it incrementally. And now we've got the
 place. We've got the construction going on. We're expanding. Fantastic. That is done. We move on to the next
 thing. So even a larger footprint can be one of those initiatives. All that making sense? Yes.
 So that it can be any piece. The financial side is vague to say we would focus on the finances.
 Well, if you're saying that to me, that means that we're working on accounting. Because accounting
 is an accurate or it's not understandable, so many leaders don't understand a P&L. So for me, working on
 the finances could be teaching people how to understand P&Ls so that we can discuss finances in a group.
 And what we need to do as far as making more finances, well, that's a different initiative. That's
 probably going to be more focused on the marketing. That's going to be focused on our products. That's
 going to be focused on our services. Whatever opportunities that we have, those will come in as
 initiatives. It's as crisp. Clearly, you have a big picture. You have the broad scope.
 Thank you. For me, that is what we focus on here is helping people to get to that bigger picture.
 You spend your days in this blinkered area of running the business every single day.
 And it makes it difficult to raise your head up just to see what's going on. That's why I want to
 get the stuff off of your plate. Because then you're going to be like, if I can get the stuff out of the way,
 that gives me time to focus on bigger and better things. So for me, I can't do the little things.
 I can't focus on the tasks. I can't focus on admin. I've got a business to run an attain to make successful.
 And so I keep that junk off my plate and we are constantly looking at my, you know,
 Mike, to do to find out, what is there anything that doesn't need to be on my plate? Or am I doing the
 most important things to grow this business? And if I can stay focused on those things, then we can grow the
 business. We can bring team members in to take on the other pieces, water boom, butterbing.
 If we ever said that, I'll show. There you go.
 This is a silly boy from Lake Tahoe speaking like a, you're okay. All right. So
 any other questions on that? No, not that I can think of. Okay. It's a lot of information, right?
 It's a lot of information. It appears to be very useful information. I dive with it.
 You know, there is one spot and you may just say not applicable, but
 focusing on leadership and when you're talking to a solo practitioner and a little
 veterinary hospital, you're not only talking to the leader, but you're talking to the producer.
 Sort of mentally, I'm trying to sort, you know, well, gee, how do I, but I think you did answer the
 question. I just didn't get it the first time around in terms of time management. Yeah. So if you are the
 producer, is it possible? So what we're looking at is you're looking at, for you not to be producing,
 no, I don't know the veterinary world very well, but do you have to hire another vet? Is there a
 journeyman vet or a freshman vet? What does it look like to have somebody else who's producing?
 Well, it's possible in the veterinary field to really maximize what one veterinarian produces by
 improving the capabilities of the support staff, which I'm looking at now. And then at some point,
 I want to need an associate veterinarian or part-time veterinarian as that's gross. Okay, perfect.
 So that's that's our main focus then. Also think outside the box, you don't have to have everybody who
 comes to you stay with you forever. If you brought associate vet on and they were there for a year
 or two years with that benefit your business. Definitely. So think outside the box. Sometimes we get
 as leaders, we go, no, I want to hire somebody who's with me for 20 years. No, no, no, no, no,
 make this a fantastic launching pad for somebody. If they come on for a year or two years,
 and they learn how to build their own business and they take off, as long as they don't go,
 my thing would be this, I'd probably have a non-compete within a certain radius, which is easy.
 And then if they go on and move to Ohio and start doing their stuff,
 great fantastic. I got a year or two years out of this person who's producing. I made money off of that.
 You know, we marketed. So yeah, that's what I would look at. I would keep my head. I keep my eyes open
 to things outside the box. If I bring somebody out and they're only with me for a year or two,
 but they benefit of the business. Great, fantastic. If I bring somebody out in there for three months,
 then that's not worth it. That's a waste of my time. Unless they're coming to intern. And you can do that
 all day long. So focus on that support staff. How do you get them up to speed? The faster you can get
 them up to speed, the more training you can get them and the better that they become. And the better
 benefits that you offer. And I'm not saying that you have to start showing out more money,
 offer that culture, offer that place where they want to be that family unit. They'll stay with you
 and they'll continue to grow and become better themselves. And then you can start getting stuff off your
 plate and maximizing what you can do as a vet. Questions on any of that? It all makes good sense.
 Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Well, Andrew, thank you for joining me. I appreciate it.
 Thank you. We'll have a great rest of your day and go fix some cats. Thank you, Chris.
 Absolutely. What can I tell you later? Well, folks, there you go. Great, great question. Great.
 Focus on solving issues for her business. How do I, how do I pour into me so that I can pour into others?
 The only way you're going to be able to do that is to make sure you're focusing on the most important
 things to make sure that you're focusing on the right things to make sure that you're not spending
 time doing 10,000 things that you should never have been doing in the first place. Instead,
 focusing on the proper things to grow your business. On top of that is pouring into your team. The great
 thing about Andrew is she's wanting to grow herself personally. She will take that stuff and pour
 that into her team as well. It's the law of the lid. Right. Maxwell talks about the law of the lid.
 If I am going to stop myself and growth, and that's as far as my team is going to grow. But if I'm
 going to keep growing myself, then I can continue if I pour into them, continue to grow them
 as well. So be looking for those opportunities for you to grow yourself and then surround yourself with
 powerful people that understand what you're going through. Again, as you heard Andrew talk about,
 it's tough sometimes with family members because they have an agenda. If they've never run a
 business, if they've never let a team like you are, then unfortunately their information is
 possibly not going to be the best thing for you to listen to. Agendas and lack of experience make
 it very difficult to be able to talk to somebody about what you're experiencing. You've got to find people
 who know what you're experiencing, who've been there, who've walked through it themselves, or are
 walking through it right now. Those are the times of people that can hold you accountable to the process
 and help you in your process. If you will do those things, you will be amazed at how much your
 business and your leadership will start to grow. Hopefully you have enjoyed this today. As always,
 take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]