 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show!
 Folks, we are glad that you are joining us today
 where we are live at the next level leadership live event.
 [applause]
 And we are having a blast here in Franklin, Tennessee at a great hotel that we come to.
 We're so glad to be back at the embassy here that has done a phenomenal job.
 Are you guys enjoying the hotel?
 [applause]
 So we get to take this opportunity for you guys.
 Those of you that are listening right now, you are actually getting to get a piece of what the VIP experience is here at the event where we take time to do question and answering.
 So we are going to be answering as many questions as we possibly can and whatever the question is.
 It can be life, business, it can be leadership, it can be whatever.
 So we will start over here at this mic please say your first name and then let me know what your question is.
 My name is Bailey and my question is about the Pareto Principles.
 So for those who don't know the Pareto Principles is this statistical thing that we seem to see in nature and all over the place.
 Some examples are in customer support, about 20% of customers create 80% of our problems.
 Well, distribution, 20% of the population holds about 80% of wealth.
 So if nobody is familiar with the Pareto distribution, it's commonly referred to as the 80/20 rule.
 So my question to you Chris, is how do you address something like the Pareto distribution which we see in companies where only 20% of the employees are producing 80% of the productivity within that company?
 How do you address something like that?
 Well, that is a fantastic question Bailey. Thank you for asking that.
 For me, you guys just got to sit through a key result areas lesson, KRAs.
 And one of the biggest pieces that I push in that is accountability.
 The problem that happens in a business is that we usually don't have the right tools to solve problems.
 You guys just want through the KRA lesson for a couple hours. How was that lesson?
 Okay, those are those tough.
 And it's tough, right? How many of them are going, that's going to be difficult to go back and do correctly?
 So we have a lot of head nods. The reason why is is because that's a tool that people usually don't use.
 It is another thing that people usually don't do in leadership to set people up for success.
 So when you look at a business, we tend to look at and or even like ministry, you know, as in ministry years ago.
 And the most of the work was done by a small percentage of volunteers who came by and did things, right?
 When you hire people and you don't have quality standards, you don't have quality tools.
 You don't have quality metrics. You don't have quality measurements. You don't have quality accountability.
 You still end up with people who want to come and bust it and do a great job.
 Would you guys agree with that? You get folks that will come in and still they're going to hold
 themselves to a higher standard. There's never been a business. I've been working since I was 14 years old.
 Geez, it's now 34 years. I've been working since I was 14 years old.
 And I'm talking about, for pay. Worked for mom for many years before that without any pay.
 But working in an actual business and organization and getting paid for it, there's never been a time that I didn't bust it.
 I was, you know, I've had work ethics since I was a kid. So there's never been a time I didn't bust it because I choose to bust it.
 Some folks aren't taught that way. A lot of days, a lot of people nowadays are incredibly entitled.
 We have a lot of folks that believe that the company is there for them.
 We have a lot of people in government that are thinking ways like this as well.
 So a lot of folks aren't initially set up to go and kill it in busted in a role. We hire these folks
 and we hire both. But then we put people in a role and we don't have accountability.
 We don't have processes in place. We don't have quality tools to make sure that the role
 is successful. So how is it that we can have 20% of the people coming to a business and really lift the business?
 Because we don't have accountability on the other 80% of the roles.
 Crazy thing happens when you put accountability in place. And when I'm saying accountability,
 I shared this with you guys earlier, but for the folks listening, for a lot of us we came out of a church background
 where accountability was you got beat over the head with a Bible and told all the things you were doing wrong and how horrible of a person you were.
 And that is not accountability. That's control. That's stupidity.
 Instead, quality accountability is helping somebody. Discover the things that they need to be better, holding their arms up when they need their arms held up, pushed when they could be pushed.
 All of this stuff helps people to do better. We don't put that in place in business. And so we end up with is 20% of our people doing a great job.
 And we're pretty happy about that. But the other 80% we feel like we're constantly wrangling them. The old saying it's like hurting cats.
 We got to get them to move and do something. Once you put accountability in place, guess what happens.
 They either step up and do what's expected and what's measured and what's held accountable or they don't make it.
 Therefore, they leave. If you see the amount of work that we accomplish with my team, the size of my team, you'd be blown away.
 Why? Because there isn't a 20% doing a great job. There's a 100%.
 And I don't have to worry about it. And there have been times I've had people on my team that didn't make it.
 The crazy thing is by pushing accountability and accountability and interesting thing happens,
 they tend to see that they're not going to make it and they choose to go somewhere else.
 Which is not a bad thing because God has something else for them somewhere else, right?
 But for me, if you're going to work in my business, you guys are the ones that matter. Your lives matter.
 We're here to change your lives. And so you better step up and make things happen. But the great thing is, I have measurements.
 I have KPIs, I have quality care, I have accountability that says if you don't do it, then there's going to be consequences.
 So I'm a big proponent. Some of you may not believe in this, but I'm a huge proponent of choices and consequences.
 Right? Parents for the love. There's not a parent that comes to the next level of life who does not learn choices and consequences.
 There's not a leader who comes through the next level of mastermind or a strap plan that doesn't learn choices and consequences.
 If you choose not to do the things I'm paying you for in total person or confused person, maybe I did a bad job leading, right?
 So maybe it's my fault. But if you choose not to do this, this is the consequence that goes with it.
 No, if it's the answer about it. But we have become a society where as leaders we go one, two, three.
 I'm going to start all over again. Oh my gosh, my mother never counted ever that we didn't get counting.
 You just didn't do stupid because we were taught not to do stupid, right?
 But we've become a society. I just can't get them to do this thing. No, you really can hold them accountable.
 Well, what does that look like? Put measurements on it. Lead. Get involved. Make sure they have the tools necessary.
 Make sure that they have everything they need to be successful. If they choose not to, then, and a long plot.
 Tomorrow morning we're going to be teaching firing. So I'll teach you how to fire them.
 Understand that before you ever get to that point, there's a long process that is checking you as a leader, a long process.
 Where you understand that you're not doing something just because you want to do it. But you've made sure that you aren't the problem first.
 Absolute last thing is making sure that the team members, the problem. If they are, choices and consequences, consequences, consequences,
 consequences, at this point we've got to let you go. So Bailey, it's a very long answer to the question, but does that answer the question?
 Absolutely. Fantastic. Come over here. Hi, I'm using a question. You put about carry.
 Do you have a hand on the hand? How long do you have a hand on the hand? How long do you have a hand?
 Well, it's literally within the first month. It depends on how much they've got going on.
 But I want that to happen in the first month if at all possible. It'd be great if you could have it done within the first week or two.
 It just kind of depends on boarding processes as long. The first couple of days, we're not really expecting somebody in our business to be doing work.
 Because they're getting indoctrinated. There's a lot of stuff going on and depending upon what they're going to do after that.
 There should be a training program so that they're getting prepared for their role.
 So within the first month that really like to see that. But if you can get it done in the first week or two, that's pretty fantastic as well.
 Hi, Chris. Hey, brother, what's shaking? My name's Dale. Good to see you again. Good to see you as well.
 The lesson today on KRA was fantastic. However, I'm struggling.
 I was wondering if you could provide me with an example to get the thought process snowballing. For instance, we have a electrical contracting company.
 Okay. We deal with construction electricians and maintenance and service and electrical business.
 How I get confused between job description and KRAs. So how would I take, let's say, one of my electricians and what would be an example for a KRA for someone in their position?
 Okay, this is a great question. So stay right there at the mic. The difference between the KRA and a job description comes down to this.
 The job description is the list of things, the tasks and responsibilities that they need to do in the role.
 That thing, that might be a lot. Now you ought to expect you to sit down and say, hey, when you get coffee in the morning, make sure that doesn't need to be on a job description.
 But these are all the things you're supposed to do. Now keep in mind some of the guys you're hiring are already experienced. So there's a lot of implied in that.
 So you don't need to literally go down and insult their intelligence by putting out stuff that they've done for the last five years.
 These are the tasks and responsibilities that you're expected to do in the role.
 The key result areas are, this is the result I'm expecting from the role. So pick a role.
 A journey of nutrition. Okay. So his job is to supervise and oversee the project as it's being put together. He has
 Unlicensed or apprentice electricians working under the team.
 Basically dealing with the maybe a construction project that we have a deadline to go old budgets set up to maintain.
 Okay, so just with what you said now, keep in mind you guys heard me say, I expect you to spend a lot of time getting perspective on what the roles also would be.
 I would start with that job description first. I would then sort make sure we're doing things by priority.
 Then I'm going to ask the question, what's the greatest result I need out of this one section?
 So there's a lot of that that's in the lesson. Obviously, that you've already learned.
 So just by hearing what you're saying to results that I would expect would be key from him
 is the success of the completed roles, the jobs themselves. So however you would define what I can sense.
 He's leading the people to success in the role in the job itself. Then one of those key results for me most likely is going to be
 the outcome of every single job, what I'm expecting that result to be. So it could be, you know,
 that there is a high quality delivery on the job with less than 5%
 issues or I don't know what it could be. I mean, again, you would want to sit down and spend a lot of time asking
 what should that look like. Another piece would be the budget side. If he's responsible for that,
 then for me, anybody who's ever responsible over a budget, I mean job costing is going to be such an amazing thing.
 For me, what that guy, you better not have loss, you better, you know, I'm going to have a result of
 that he's delivering at least on budget if not under something along those lines who's going to be a result that I'm going to expect.
 So those might be two results, two key results that I'm expecting and then maybe list a couple of things that point to
 how that happens underneath it. Does that make more sense?
 Well, it does. I think a lot of these things we have been doing in verbal for the last.
 Right. I just never put them to paper. Right. So maybe been doing them in a training process,
 but not getting that defined, care-a-ribe right now. Yeah, and then you don't have the KPIs with it as well,
 which is going to say you need to hit this on the budgets and you can't, you know, no less than,
 you know, three budgets a year over, I don't know how many jobs you do. Maybe that's three
 budgets a month over five percent. All those pieces can fall in there as KPIs as well, but here's the problem.
 If you don't have that written down in this guy, you know, God moves them onto another business.
 You hire somebody brand new and you go back to the same, you know, just discussing it. We just share it.
 We just talk about it. Well, six months down the road, you're not able to hold him greatly accountable because he doesn't have anything defined by what he's supposed to,
 you know, the results that he's supposed to come up with. So that's why we get in place even with people that have been there for seven years with you or whatever,
 get it in place and then hold people accountable to it. Does that make sense?
 It does. One last question. Yeah. How much would did you get split in a day? Oh my gosh.
 That's a great question. So for those that are listening to the show, one of the examples I used is growing up.
 My brother and I used to split wood by hand. That's how we made money. We would sell money. We would sell a cord of pinewood
 back in those days for about a hundred bucks. I think we got all the way. It's $119. And I think we would split by hand.
 I mean, it just depends on how many trees we brought in. We'd split it all in one day. So maybe a cord, maybe two cords a day.
 When we brought it all in. So something like that. So good question. That's fun. Marcus. I mean, hey, tell your name.
 Marcus, my question is on the people. One of the biggest things in the area is specifically
 collaboration to culture. We are really culturally driven organizations, culturally driven
 work-to-use. So a lot of them talk about it, the values we go back to, I was sometimes talking about
 culture. How do you measure culture in your position? How do you have something that's so
 inherited, qualitative, how do you make that fun? Yeah. So great fantastic question. One of the things
 that I will do is I will always put surveys around stuff that I can't, that's not very tangible.
 The first thing I'm going to do is ask what in my culture is the most important thing for me to put a
 metric on. So one of the things I shared with you guys earlier, my whole team knows love on these people.
 Come in here. Take care of people. Love on the team members. Take care of the team members.
 Make sure that you're taking care of folks. So for me, if I wanted to say, I want to see how well
 people did. Survey my own team. I could survey you guys. I could put things in place that would
 give me an idea of what the person's doing or the people are doing. But when you take a look at
 your culture, it might be attitude. So if I'm ever putting in and we're going to talk about compensation tomorrow,
 actually not talking about profit sharing tomorrow. Well, we'll have to come back for another event.
 We're going to talk about compensation tomorrow. But if I was teaching profit sharing one of the
 things I would teach is find the most important things that you value inside the business, that you want
 to give somebody money for free for. Right? Because you should be paying them great money already.
 So profit sharing is saying, I'm already paying you great money. Now I'm giving you money because I really like you.
 And I'm going to grade it on these most important valuable things. Well, one of those may be attitude.
 You know, how do you treat the external client and the internal client? One of them might be good.
 I didn't know just like the side or leadership team or at the end of the video, you decided to end with the
 says and end of the time. Yeah. So if it's a leader doing it. So if I'm doing it for profit sharing,
 then the leaders grading their own people, right? They're grading their own team, put it on a scale.
 Right? And we would say this is this, this is this. Well, if anybody's off, there's a discussion.
 If somebody's not hitting a great attitude, they're better be a discussion with this or we're
 having, you know, I'm going to be having a discussion with them, right? So in that sense, you can kind of grade somebody as a
 leader of how well they're doing, but you better have accountability to it. So if you're going to say somebody's not
 taking care of the team members, you now have to sit down and say, hey, here's what I'm experiencing with you.
 I've noticed this, this, this, help me to understand what's happening here. And if they're like,
 "Yeah, you're right. I haven't." Okay. Well, that's not how we do things. Let's talk about how we do it, fix it, then put on
 a process. If the person comes back and goes, I, I so don't agree with you. That's not what's been happening.
 Now, we've got a different discussion. So that's one way of doing it by leadership.
 Another way is something that we do, do we do this with you guys in your strap plan?
 Did we put together surveys for communication? We did. So another thing that we would do is,
 is like put together a survey specifically on a topic. Like we did for you guys, which would be communication.
 You know, is there fear? Is there quality communication? Is there ishthtt. You know, all of this stuff?
 Now I want to see how people are doing. And that way I can survey a whole team and find out what we're
 finding in the culture as well. So there's multiple ways that you could put that in place. Does that answer that?
 Fantastic. Thank you. Sir, I appreciate it. Over here. Hi there.
 Hatina. So when an owner of a company who strengths or better served working in the business
 without taking a bigger leadership role, at what point would that person decide to hire somebody
 to take a leadership role and just work in the business? The moment they notice it. So this is a very
 difficult thing for an entrepreneur to discover. Okay. So I've got two good examples. One, gosh,
 the Tennessee Bun lady. What is her name? Oh my gosh, I interviewed her.
 She's almost a decade ago. So this gal, I can't remember her name right now. Anyways,
 this is a gal that came out. She started, you know, back in the 80s, she was trying to buy a
 McDonald's franchise and women didn't get to buy McDonald's franchises. It only meant got to own franchises.
 Somehow, I can't remember if it was her husband passed or something and she took over whatever.
 I can't remember what it was, but she ended up with a couple. Well, I gave her a crappy place.
 And so it was sitting right next to, it was sitting next to nothing, but she went ahead and brought in
 a Greyhound bus line. She bought a franchise to Greyhound, next thing you know her business blew up.
 So she became successful and started doing incredible jobs as a woman and all of a sudden,
 she's making a lot of noise because a woman's doing this. And so she's rising and rising and rising.
 Well, all of a sudden, she wants to take over making their buns. The McDonald's buns. So long story
 short, they finally gave her a shot at it and she killed it. She grew it to 60 million.
 60 million dollars, I believe, of making McDonald's buns. That's pretty impressive, right?
 She got to a place where when I interviewed her years ago, she's like Chris, I'm bringing in.
 She couldn't say it back then, but it was the guy who was the, I think it was like the VP for
 saraly. She goes, "Course I've grown it to 60 million. I don't know how to get a past here." She goes,
 "So I'm backing out of that spot and I'm bringing in somebody who's grown, you know, who's done much
 better than me to take over the business and she brought him in immediately in that spot."
 That's a smart way of doing it. I've got to my tax attorney, same concept. Tax attorney opened up
 three different locations. He's running three different locations. Discovers one day, he sucks at
 running a business. He's a great tax attorney. He sucks at running a business. So he brought somebody
 in as a CEO. The first one did not work out well. They brought the second one in that guy, I think,
 has been running at every sense. So there's my two examples. The struggle is recognizing.
 The struggle is realizing that you are beyond your capacity in the role. That's the problem.
 Because a lot of times as an entrepreneur, as an owner, we might be a little prideful, maybe,
 possibly. It's possible? No, not at all. We might be prideful. And so it's difficult for us to see,
 "Oh, I'm tapped. This is my capacity." So unless I grow me, and once Maxwell's law of the
 lid, if I don't grow me, well, that's it. We're done. This is as far as we can go. That's the first
 thing you need to recognize it. Once you recognize your own capacity. So let me give you an example.
 The team heard this week. This is our third big event that we've opened up to the public that I would
 not do if Heather was not on my team. You guys wouldn't be here. There's no way it would happen.
 And the reason why is because even though I'm the one who trained the team and her,
 how to do this stuff, she's way beyond me and doing this stuff. It's way beyond my capacity.
 So literally, this would not happen if she wasn't here because I'm not good enough. I can't do it.
 I can't pull it off. I understand that about myself. I also understand about myself that I'm not that
 great administratively. I can make anything happen. If you give me time and opportunity, I can make
 anything happen. But it's going to take me seven hours, we're going to take Andrea too.
 Because she's bent for that. She has that capacity. I don't have that capacity. So the more I recognize
 my strengths, the more I surround myself with people who are way better than I am on my weaknesses.
 And someday that may be above me, that may be bringing in somebody to do things that I just can't do
 with the business. Now, it just happens to be my specialty is running businesses and teaching people
 how to lead and all that kind of stuff. But I know early on what my capacity is and what it is not.
 I've known that for years. I learned that cheese back in my 20s. I started recognizing,
 if you suck at this man, put somebody else in that place. And I started feeling myself with people who are
 much better than myself. So the first thing is recognizing and that's tougher for an entrepreneur or
 a leader to do. When I hired Joel and Keith, he doesn't work with us anymore. He did a while back. He came
 and did a great job with us. When I hired those guys, I told them, listen, I'm putting you in a role,
 but this role may outgrow you. It's very possible it'll outgrow you. If it does, when we get to that
 spot, we're going to be adults about this and we're going to keep you in your strengths. It's not a matter
 of going, no, but I need to hold on to a title or no, I need to hold on to this piece of it.
 It is going, oh, well, here's my strength. Let me continue to grow in the strength.
 So recognizing is the first part. The second part is if we struggle with, you know, why do we become entrepreneurs?
 We don't like people telling us what to do, right? Let us be honest. Come on.
 We don't like accountability. You hear me talk about accountability. These people up here in
 next-level mastermind. It's a tough thing to make a decision to jump into next-level mastermind,
 because you're asking for accountability. Entrepreneurs don't want accountability. I want to be able
 to make my own decisions. Nobody's saying you can't. It's saying you get solid people alongside
 of you that help you grow you push you all that kind of stuff. So as an entrepreneur, we can be a
 little prideful and say, well, I'm going to hire somebody to take this part of my role, but they're
 not going to be as good. You know, subconsciously, they won't be as good as you. So you can make a
 massive failure by bringing in somebody who doesn't have the capacity for the very thing you don't
 have the capacity for. So control it, right? So I'll bring in somebody who I still control.
 You own the business. You own the business. Bring somebody in who's a freaking genius that is so
 much better than you. And put that person in place and let them rock with it. If they don't work out,
 you own the business. You can always, you know, try and find somebody else. Does all that make sense?
 That answer that question. I'm sure you have a question. Would you apply the same principles
 as the carry? Oh, heck yes. Would you apply the same principles when you're interviewing that
 person? Absolutely. And just have a different question. It's a go back to the success questions.
 When I'm looking for, I want to list it. The responses that tell me, you actually know how to run a
 business. You actually know how to make this thing profitable. I'm going to be so heavy into how they're
 going to grow and what's their examples. And what do they know about strategy or like, you know,
 we talk in here about strap plan. What do you know about this? How do you do this? How do you make
 team member successful? Everything that I'm going to ask is not just, I don't ask, can you do this?
 Show me, show me, show me, show me, show me, show me. Because people will rule them themselves out
 so quickly because they can't actually come up with good quality examples. So, I'm sorry. I have a
 think for a job. If I had a dollar for every company that said, hey, would you come run our company?
 Oh my gosh, I am not. I have a fantastic job here. But thank you. I don't know, ask my team. I'm
 up here. You know, get them all out of here. No, but thank you very much, Tina. Great questions.
 One is, that's the depth of what you can do. So, tell me what's going on. So, you can take
 the decision on what your strap plan is. How depth can you go into this, that's out of
 the event, who it does to see you now. I don't know whether or not I'm going to say over that
 year or any. But if you're watching, I ask you how depth can you go into your strap plan to your
 seat? So, obviously, our leadership team is going through it. You know, we can be a division where we're
 going from what we're trying to accomplish this year. How deep you go with that, you can be a
 care team. And the second question is, pro-planned. Can you use the example of what that actually
 is? Absolutely. When it comes to the strap plan, it is my belief that if your team doesn't know.
 So, we talked about vision earlier. If your team doesn't know where they're going, then they're going
 in any direction. They don't know where to go. They don't know how to get there. So, they go wherever
 they think they're supposed to go. So, when it comes to strap plan, and again, my goal for strap
 plan is the whole company becomes laser focused. We're all moving in this direction. Or with you guys,
 the major, you know, it's two different companies. But the major focus of the one company is
 we're going in this direction, what we'll create another company and go in this direction. I want
 everybody to know we're going to the beach. So, if the destination is the beach, guys, that's where we're
 going. I want them to see that. So many people hire people for a role. Come to the job. And they have
 no idea where we're headed. What we're doing, why that's even important. When I can show people,
 we actually have a destination. And once again, let me say for those that are listening,
 you should have one mission, but you will have 700 visions. We'll constantly reset destination,
 reset reset reset. When everybody can see it, then they know how, where we're going. They know how to
 take their role and start pointing it in that direction. So, I'm going to communicate to the whole
 business. This is the direction we're moving in. We do it almost weekly. I mean, it's constant. We're
 constantly taught everybody knows the next thing that's coming up. Everybody knows the things that we're
 working on. Everybody knows this is what we're doing. I mean, it's a consistent communication.
 So, that nobody's confused. Nobody's ghost. Hey, are we ever doing an event on this? They already know
 ahead of time, right? So, if we communicate it all the time, the second thing is when it comes. So,
 that's globally as a company. The second thing is, I want to communicate the fire out of it
 in the role individually. I do not want a role on the team that does not understand how the thing that
 they do every single day points to that vision. So, I start with the carease. That's why I do that
 section on my care A of all the different bullet points. So, again, like I say, you can do paragraph,
 whatever you want to do, sentences, doesn't matter me. But I want them to see. These are the things
 you do that points towards our accomplishing our current strap plan. That's the place I start. But then,
 as we review all the time, it's constant. You know, we go back through that care and we review. And again,
 in the new hire, it's going to be a monthly thing. We spread that out. We still take a look at how we're
 pointing towards that strap plan. So, I'm communicating it in those discussions and those meetings.
 Does that make sense? Okay. The second piece, the growth plan. So, there's two different pieces.
 Like I say, when you have a new hire, we have a growth plan. Gosh, I can remember what if I can
 remember like on these guys, the new folks coming in, one of the pieces is indoctrination to our culture.
 There is a plan where you actually learn how we do stuff. And you don't walk in the door and all of
 a sudden, no. It's a long process. So, for us, it's going through all the materials I teach. It's
 understanding how we treat clients. It's understanding how we treat each other. There's a growth process
 that we expect that at X time, you're indoctrinated by the culture. You understand the culture.
 Understand how to treat people. You understand that when we come to an event, you're moving tables,
 grabbing boxes, moving around, whatever it takes. Something for Austin just came on board.
 And one of our growth plans is he's already coming in doing a great job with social media.
 He's already got a lot of experience in social media. A growth plan for us is that he becomes
 much more of an expert in that area. So, we don't want him to come on and keep doing what he knows.
 We have a plan and that means we're going to spend money. We're going to find out,
 that's something that's going to be a Joel's responsibility is to say, all right, let's sit down and
 find out. If we sent him to an event or seven, or what are we going to do for training,
 we put that in place and we make sure he's growing in this. However, he has to have the results
 of it as well. We need to see that it's actually accomplishing stuff. So, stuff like that would be another
 thing that we would put on a growth plan. I know there's other things we throw in there. I just can't think of him right now.
 Okay, makes sense? Great. Fantastic. All right, who's next? We've answered every question possible. Patrick.
 Hi, Chris. Hey, Patrick. My head has to do with the capacity. We talked a little bit about it. So, I'm
 I'm really bad at assuming that everyone works at the same speed and efficiency that I did.
 And I assume things and I'll ask questions about adding responsibilities or advising care
 is with my team members. A lot of times I'll get a absolutely, we got it. No problem. Take care.
 Check back with them and all of a sudden they're tasks actually. All right. So, what are the questions that I need to be asking to
 really get a good assessment of capacity as opposed to asking questions now? And I think they're just telling me what I want to hear.
 Well, yes, of course we can handle it. What are the questions I need to be asking, or maybe even deeper than that?
 What are some of the care as I need to be putting in place for people to increase their capacity without overloading
 and potassium? The first question is, are they a high-eye? That needs to be your first question whenever you find people getting overloaded.
 All right. Now, that's, again, that's a funny thing in the high-eye's in the room. Hey, me right now.
 But guys, if we're being honest, that is a tendency of the personality style. That's the first place I start is
 the personality style looking to take on more because what's the goal. I want you to think I'm amazing.
 You know what you'd be happy with me. That's the first place I start. However,
 what I want you to put in place going forward is not ever adding something to somebody's
 plate that doesn't come along with more KPIs, more measurements. So, in other words, when you're sitting down
 and you're asking somebody saying, hey, this needs to be done. Do you think this is something you can do?
 Absolutely, we got this. Okay, let's take a look at what you're currently doing.
 I've already got your KRA. I've got all of your measurements. I've got your KPIs on there. I've got the
 stuff that I'm looking at. I've been reviewing this with you. So, I know that you're doing, you know,
 100% job on it. Which again, the situation you're discussing, you've not implemented all the
 stuff that we've talked like we have today yet. But if you're doing the accountability
 like I'm teaching you guys, then what will happen is you'll see their capacity. So, somebody says,
 I can take on more and you go, you're kind of only getting this done about 70% over here. You already know
 the answer to that, right? But let's say, we're not at that point. You know, we haven't got all of the training
 in yet. We're just looking right now who do we give this job to or this task to. Then ask the
 question and say, okay, here's all the things you have to get done. How are you going to get this done as
 well? How much time is it going to take you? When are you going to do it? Do you have those slots
 available in your time throughout the day or the week or whatever? How is it going to be a priority?
 What priorities are going to take compared to the other things I've already got on your plate?
 So, if I've gotten that's why we say, "List you carry, it's about highest priority," right?
 Because if I'm asking you to do these three things and then I throw this thing on, and it becomes a
 greater priority in my mind, but you're like, oh no, no, that's a fourth priority. Then I might throw it
 up here in something else as you can do. If you intended for it to be the highest priority and I
 throw it on the bottom of the list, well, then, of course, how much time am I giving it? So,
 everything I'm going to ask is going to be, how are you going to do it? How are we going to measure
 it? So, now that I'm giving you this piece of this role, I need to be able to measure that you're actually
 getting it done. At the same time, I'm measuring all the other pieces that you're doing. If everything
 works out, then eventually what you'll find is this all gels incredibly well, and you can start
 spreading out the discussions, the measurements, and all that kind of stuff into a longer time frame,
 because then you'll see that they're killing it in those roles. Does all that make sense? Fantastic.
 All right. All right, guys, are you having a great time here at the event? Good. Good. Good.
 Well, we are going to have more opportunities to answer your questions, and those were fantastic
 questions. I love that. So, as we go along, we've got a big lesson coming up here in just a little bit.
 We've got two more days of this stuff. So, be sure that you're writing down these questions,
 because I want to be able to get to them as much as possible. And I know tomorrow night is also going
 to be another Q&A time that we're going to have opportunities to do that. So, if you are enjoying this here,
 do me a favor, let all the people who are listening know how much you are glad that you came this year.
 All right, for all of those that are listening, we hope this helps you out today, take this information,
 change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Applause]