 [Music]
 Welcome to the show everybody.
 So glad that you guys are joining us today.
 And for those of you that joined us at the next level leadership live event,
 we are glad you guys have had a week to recover from a big fantastic powerful event.
 Not everyone could make it to the next level leadership live event.
 So we wanted to bring the event to our podcast listeners, at least a part of it.
 The event is two and a half days of amazing content and fun stuff that we do and great dinners
 and gala and all kinds of great stuff and a fantastic musician that we've gotten a last couple of years.
 Even has done an incredible job and the event makes your brain hurt.
 According to our attendees they're like okay we've got it to the right length.
 We actually it was used to be a little bit longer like one lesson longer and they're like we can't even think that far.
 So it's a lot of stuff that is fantastic and these leaders are going to be working on that for the next year.
 The stuff that we taught. One of the lessons I taught was on where successful leaders spend their time.
 So we did this whole event and just tool after tool all the lessons were leading up to where the leaders should spend their time.
 So a place where successful leaders not just a place. The place is that successful leaders spend their time.
 And so building that up, solving these things and working on these things, then you get to do the most powerful things as a leader.
 And so here's some of the things that you're going to be hearing in this episode. The three major areas of focus for successful leadership.
 How to make your team successful where a leader shouldn't get their worth and how to increase your value to the organization.
 So here is a clip of the beginning of the lesson I taught on where successful leaders spend their time. Hope it has a job.
 Many leaders have never been taught how to lead a team to success.
 The difficult thing is is that many times you've not been taught this.
 The thing you have to realize is you've not been taught this.
 So to beat yourself up over gosh I'm failing I don't know what I'm doing is they colossal waste of time.
 Get to the information. Get to the information. Well what do I do? How do I lead people to success?
 Because when we don't know this stuff we discover other parts of things that we're failing at.
 Your worth as a leader is in making your team successful not being bogged down in tasks.
 It will never ever ever ever ever ever be how many tasks you get done in a day.
 Leader higher people for that business owners higher people for that that are specialized in it.
 You know as you saw what the team up here who are the ones that are knocking out the task sides of
 things people who love to knock out tasks people who are really good at it.
 There's people up here and still people sitting at the back of the room that if I'm doing the task it
 takes me seven hours it takes them to let's be honest it takes them 15 minutes.
 It takes me a long time because that's just not how God wired me up.
 So let's get you in your strength and get the tasks off of you.
 And again the caveat would be well what if you are the task person then let's get somebody above you
 who's the energy who leads the team let's make that happen. But know this running a team or running a business
 your worth is never going to be in tasks. Fear sets in when a leader considers removing daily tasks
 fear of failing as a leader. Well I don't know how to lead and right now my identity is in how many
 things I get done in a day and I love getting home not being able to tell my spouse what I did today
 because it was so busy. What happens if you start taking tasks off of my plate? You lead.
 I don't know what that means, Chris. Okay we'll get there. Fear of not knowing what to do.
 Fear of not being needed. Let's get some honesty in here. Business owners and leaders
 thinking about getting all the tasks off of your plate does this fear set in? How many people? There you go.
 But what I do, I take all the stuff off of my plate. Everybody else is obviously needed because
 they're doing stuff and then I'm not needed. Business owners that's the biggest struggle right?
 Fearful leaders don't want to hire people who are going to do all these amazing tasks because it
 then it makes me look like I don't know what I'm doing and then I'm not needed.
 Because maybe I'm not. No you just don't understand there's greater focus for you to be working on.
 When you get to that place in your head and you flip that switch all of a sudden it totally makes sense.
 Oh okay get this stuff off so I can't focus on greater things. You have to have a change in your mind
 set. As we go through this lesson this is something that some of you may struggle with. You
 have to focus on changing your mind set. How you look at this. Make your team successful.
 Making your team successful requires a change of focus from worth and tasks to nurturing and
 leading. So as I'm mentioning worth in this lesson I'm not talking about your worth in God. I'm
 talking about your worth to the business. Your value to the business. Your value to the business is not
 going to be doing 7,000 tasks today. It's actually going to be nurturing team members leading processes.
 Making things happen. Leading your strat plan process. Making that successful.
 You will increase your value to the organization when you duplicate and replace you.
 When you duplicate and replace you. Ladies in here who are in leadership. Where's my lady leaders?
 Okay. All y'all work less than the men. You put in less hours. How many ladies in here are
 actually business owners? Are running the business. You guys definitely don't put in that many hours.
 Please take a cake. We actually get stuff done so we don't have to work as hard as the men. Very efficient.
 Do you know what I find with women leaders? Women leaders will come in
 freaking kill it. Busted in a business. Work their butts off. And then go home and clean their house.
 Do their laundry and take care of all the organization and end. Yes. Let's applaud them.
 And then let me smack you. Is that the best use of your time? No, but what do we know? We are trained.
 And listen, if you are the stay at home, great. Make all that you better make all that happen.
 Right? Because you have a job. Guys, if you're the stay at home, you better make all that happen.
 Because that's your job. Right? We are partners in this thing. But one of the most difficult things
 and it is really, you know, we've trained women to believe this. Women are supposed to take care of the
 household. Men, if your wife goes and works a full-time job, jump in and help out. Split tasks.
 Help them get things done. Or use child labor. Make the kids do it. Either way.
 That's why Daniel keeps having kids. There's another task I don't have to do.
 I am sick of dishes. Hey, honey. It's date night, right? Hey, no, no. Ladies,
 how many of you feel guilty to hire somebody to come clean your house?
 Okay, how many of you have actually done it? Okay, those are the hands in the air. How many
 all when they came to clean your house, you cleaned it first? Why? Why? The guilt that comes with
 will I'm a woman. I'm supposed to take care of this piece. And again, if you're the stay at home,
 yeah, you are. Woman, man, whoever. But the guilt that comes with that is,
 well, I've got to actually clean the house before the house cleaner gets here. And I go work 90 hours
 a week at the business as well. Guys, that's not enough. What's that?
 And I clean the business. Are you a tire yet?
 Right. So let's think about this. Would you expect that if somebody inside of your business
 doing just a job? If you wouldn't, then how can we look at it that way when it comes to our
 family life as well? You have to change your mindset. The first time I paid somebody, and this is
 when I'm in my early 20s, the first time I paid somebody to change the oil in my car,
 it just felt wrong. I'd been doing it since I was a teenager. The first time I paid somebody to
 moan my lawn, oh my gosh, that really felt weird. I'm paying, I could go do that.
 The problem was, is that I was killing it, working two jobs, trying to make things happen in my life,
 and it didn't make a whole lot of sense to keep going and doing adding more tasks that I shouldn't
 be doing. It's the same thing when you're leading a business, and you just keep doing more tasks.
 You are not being efficient as a leader. You're not being efficient as a leader. I want you to work in
 the strengths. I want you to work in the amount of money I'm paying you, because I'm most likely
 paying you more money than I'm paying somebody to do just tasks. Right? Because I'm expecting
 more return out of you, which is leading things, making other things happen. So you have to have
 this change in mindset. If I could be doing more important things inside of the business that are of
 greater value to the business. So by the way, ladies, are you more valuable at cleaning your house
 late at night or loving on your kids? Seven on your kids? Right? So one or two things,
 kick the husband in the rear, because he needs to jump in and help out too. Or hire somebody,
 pay somebody. It's okay. You can do this or again child labor is fantastic. If you have to fix
 everything, how can you lead anything, train your team to solve problems? Don't just expect it,
 train them, train them to solve problems when they come to you with things, teach them how to roll up
 their sleeves and get into it. Do not allow them to just come to you, dump their problem on you, and you
 fix it. Every time you just fix a problem for somebody, you just missed out on an opportunity to lead them
 and teach them. Does that make sense? Now, here's what I will tell all of my team in the first 90
 days. I'll answer any question you got. You come to me with a problem. I'm going to solve the problem.
 But the moment I see you, within those 90 days, if you start solving problems,
 I'm going to start backing off because I want to see how well you do with this. Day 91, I'm going to
 make you come up with answers. I'll never forget Mary Beth. Once she came in, she had just been
 working for me not a terribly long period of time, but she came in one day and she goes, Chris,
 I need some help on this thing. We got a problem. What's the problem? This is the problem.
 I said, what do you think we should do? I don't know. That's why I came to you.
 And I want to say, oh, well, do me a favor. Once you go back to your desk, give it 20 minutes
 and then come back with an answer. Oh, she turned red. Because she, she, are a high-i-c-2.
 So she's vacillating between i and c and she's, mom doesn't see right now.
 And so she's not very happy with me. So she goes back to her desk. I know exactly what's going to happen.
 She goes back to her desk. Stoos on it for 20 minutes and they'd exactly 20 minutes comes back in,
 sits down in the chair. And I go, what'd you come up with? And she goes, I told you I don't have an answer.
 That's why I came to you and I said, okay, let's take another 20 minutes. This time, don't be mad at me.
 You see this. Oh, okay. She went out 10 minutes later. She comes back and she goes, okay.
 I think we should do this, this and this. And I said, that's great. To eat just this one little area,
 solid, way to go you, great job on solving the problem. They got to a point where sometimes she
 would walk in my office and she'd go, hey, I'm like, what was that? And she goes, I don't have an answer.
 Yes, this is what I'm looking for. This is the woman who became the person who could finish
 my sentences or my sandwiches, whichever one. Right? You train them, teach them you're supposedly
 to people. Make them better. How many people in here be honest? Love being the fixate person.
 I do too. I used to love fixing things. The problem is I realized I was a growing
 person. So I had a change in my mind saying, hey, reset that expectation. Get into the
 amygdala there. Hey, every time you fix a problem for somebody, you're holding them back.
 You feel great because you look, I fixed that. But you held them back. So how about you lead them,
 train them, teach them, grow them. Reset your expectations on the R.O.I. of your time.
 Invest your time as a leader. Don't waste it. Chris, are you saying fixing problems is me wasting my time.
 Only if you could have taught somebody else to do it. If you could have taught somebody else to do it,
 yes, is the answer. If you can't solve problems, solve problems is something that you hear around
 well. We actually don't have to say it a lot around my place because my team solves problems. Get on it.
 How did they get there? I didn't waste my time by solving all the problems. I invested my time wisely
 and teaching them. Lead from the front instead of being bogged down in tasks in the back.
 Now, some of your team members know exactly what that means. I can't tell you how many times I've
 had somebody to go. I really like so and so. But I don't really know them because I don't actually
 get to see them. They usually walk through the office head down and they seem very busy and you never
 really get to say hi to them. What's their role? EVP. Oh, well, there's a problem. Your team knows
 if you are bogging yourself down with tasks at the back. You're supposed to be at the front going,
 hey guys, let's go this way. We're going this way. This is the direction. Don't get bogged down.
 Question if what you're doing could be done by someone not paid as much. This does not mean that
 person isn't as important. This means that there are tasks that are lower value tasks than other
 things. So look at yourself and ask the question, what am I doing today that I really shouldn't be doing?
 I don't need to be doing these things. I can pay somebody less and I focus on something much more
 expansive that grows the business. Areas of focus, assuming that you've been killing the leadership
 crazy cycle, assuming delegation, assuming management, time management, everything, focus the bulk of your
 time on three major areas. So if you have not killed the leadership crazy cycle, stop, push pause,
 go back and work on that. Assuming that you've done that, assuming that you've got time management,
 assuming that you've delegated well, focus on these three major areas. The first of those being the
 success of the team. Now make people successful. Focus heavily on making people successful. The second
 would be the strat plan. This should become a large portion of your time. If you are doing this well,
 you will discover you will accomplish way more than you ever have, but it needs to be led really well
 from the top. Growing and developing leaders. The more we can replicate, duplicate you, the more we
 can create quality leaders if we have people to lead. The more we can do this, the more we can
 duplicate you in the process. My goal is to lead my leaders so well that I don't need to lead their team
 members. It does not mean that I don't spend time with them, as you heard Savannah talk about this. We
 spend a lot of time together. We spend a lot of time together. But my goal is not to lead them.
 My goal is to lead the leaders. However, I always do a Sam Walton deal. I get on the front lines.
 All right, y'all know Sam Walton once in a great while. He'd go down to the distribution center early
 in the morning, jump up in a rig. Some guy would go to get his rig and Sam Walton sitting there.
 He's like, "Don't, he's like, "Do not touch that radio. You're not going to talk to anybody.
 It's just me and you, man." Then the managers would go crazy because Sam doesn't walk in the
 office that day. Hey, Sam didn't show up. Oh, Crod. Which truck hasn't been talking to dispatch?
 Oh, Crod, he's going to Rally. Oh, no. Hey, let Rally know, Sam's on his way.
 And what's he doing in that truck? What's working? What's not working? What do you experience when you
 get to these, you know, these stores? What do you experience with the managers? How do you experience
 the dock workers? How do you experience this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this,
 is getting all this information, right? That's that one on one meeting I was talking about, where you meet
 with your team members. I do it every twice once every two months. He would pull up into a store
 and all the managers are lined on the dock. And he'd get out of the truck and say, "Don't say a word."
 And he'd go talk to the cashiers. And he'd talk to the guys that are that are stocking the
 shelves. And he'd get as much information as he possibly could on what was going on inside of his
 business. And then he met with the managers. Hey, we need to talk. We have adjustments we need to make.
 If you're doing that, guess what? The next time you jump on a truck, nobody worries.
 Why? Because we're all busting it. We have this culture. Oh, Sam's checking things out. That's good.
 Great. Fantastic. If you're fearful, there's a reason. You personally as a leader have a reason
 to be fearful. You've got to change your mindset. If you do this stuff, there's nothing to fear.
 Well, folks, there you go. Hopefully that has helped you today. Hopefully that is something that you
 enjoy. Again, let's just a snippet. Let's just a piece of the lesson that we taught at the next
 level leadership live event on where successful leaders spend their time. So take that information
 today. Change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 (gunshot)