 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fantastic day, we are having fun in the studio as we are making,
 we are making some quick adjustments.
 I'm scrapping just to me telling you about the seven enemies of leadership success,
 so that I can invite onto the show, Heather.
 >> More hello.
 >> Well, hello Heather.
 Welcome to the show, you're always here.
 >> No.
 >> And so it's great that you're on the show because I was going to go through
 in teach all of these lessons, and yet it's like we just had this conversation.
 >> It feels deja vu.
 >> It's deja vu because we literally just want and had a discussion on these seven
 enemies essentially, most of these things.
 And so it's like forget me just teaching this thing, I just want to let's just talk about it.
 Let's walk through this because I think it's great for people to hear.
 This is literally how I lead my leaders, and you're one of my leaders here in the company.
 But on top of welcoming you to the show, we also want to welcome one of our new team members who came
 on a couple of weeks before, no, one week before.
 The next level leadership live event, and that is Austin Cook.
 Austin, welcome.
 >> It's great to have Austin in here because one of the things that you're transitioning out
 of some of the tasks that have been on your plate, one of those things would be producing the show.
 And you've done a phenomenal job, and it's going to be said.
 >> I know.
 >> I know.
 >> I know.
 >> Because we're moving you into much bigger things.
 There's so much more stuff that we have for you, and so much bigger things that we have for you
 on your plate.
 But Austin's going to be taking over all of the production, so we are glad to have Austin in here
 as well.
 But today, when I wanted to talk about this, we're hitting the seven enemies of leadership
 success.
 And as I'm going to go through all of this stuff, it's like, wait a second, we just talked
 about this.
 >> We did.
 >> This went on a good coffee walk.
 We call it a coffee walk.
 It was coffee with Chris, a different version of coffee with Chris.
 >> Yes, it was a much longer version of coffee with Chris.
 >> But longer version, we still had our delanos in our cup as we walked around the buildings,
 right?
 And it was a discussion because you are stepping up into a much bigger role.
 And it's something that we've been thank God for in Austin, who's come on board, that
 we it's giving us more capacity to get some things off of your plate.
 And so as we do that, we have things that you're really strong in that we want to put you
 moving that direction.
 But one of the things that we have to do is make sure that we are leading people while in the
 process.
 So we had a great conversation walking around the building and discussing some of the things
 for you to focus on.
 And some of the things that you might not be focusing on so well.
 So we're going to start with number one, which is,
 >> I think I have all seven.
 >> Do you think you have all seven areas that are holding back your leadership success?
 And I do agree with you because we all do.
 It's not just you, it's everybody.
 The great thing is is that you're here, you're a part of this process, you get to experience
 all of these teachings.
 And so you and I have known each other for a very long time.
 So you've learned a lot from that process.
 But what do you think?
 So just as a whole, as you look at the stuff we're going to talk about today, what do you think
 is like the major thing that holds you back?
 >> I think the biggest thing for me is I get, I still get a lot of worth.
 And in the task, my high-c loves to do the details.
 And so it's my way of taking care and feeling like I'm giving.
 And so when I'm not doing the tasks, I don't feel like I'm participating the way that I need to
 or to, you know, to using my guess.
 So I struggle giving tasks to other people because I feel like I'm losing that worth.
 Oh, I can't, I can't help in this area anymore.
 So I'm no longer needed.
 >> Right.
 So the first thing we're talking about is task saturation because it is probably one of
 the biggest enemies to leadership success.
 And when we say task saturation, we're talking about overwhelmed.
 We're talking about, you've got so many tasks that you're doing that you can't lead.
 >> Yeah, it's one of the things that has held my leadership back the most.
 Because I take on so many things because I want to be all for everyone.
 And I want to do all that I short-change myself and others.
 You know, I'm not operating in excellence.
 >> Yeah, you've got a team of people that you're supposed to be making successful and making
 sure that they take those things off of you so that you can lead them.
 And instead what we discover is there's this worth and it's everybody who's listening can
 relate to this.
 There's this worth and so many by the way, so many of you business owners.
 It's not just leaders, but so many business owners, you get your worth in the tasks.
 Because what you're telling yourself is the more tasks I do, the more valuable I am to the
 company.
 And that's exactly what you're saying right now is that the more tasks you take on, the more
 you feel like that is your value.
 And if we take the tasks off of your plate, we had one task, it was funny we were talking
 at three because we were going through this process and just lining out the future and talking
 about the future growth and there's great opportunities and we had one task that was a,
 it's a very important task, but it's a simple task.
 Why are you wanting, why is that the thing you're wanting to hold onto?
 And it was because why?
 What were you feeling?
 >> It's my way of taking care of the office.
 And so I felt like if that was pulled off, I'd no longer be in, I'd no longer know what's going
 on.
 I'd no longer be in the end.
 >> In the end.
 >> In the end.
 I'd be on the outside.
 >> And it's just a simple task.
 Any of your team members in the building could be doing this stuff.
 And so it's so funny as we talk through this and I'm trying to show you this vision
 of the future.
 Here's some talents that you are truly gifted in.
 Here's some things that you can really focus on and help the business on a much greater
 level and it's looking back at this one little, little, little task.
 I mean, it's not mean, but it's a simple task.
 It's not mean, it's very important, but it's a simple task.
 And looking at that going, I need to hold onto that.
 And guys, I gotta tell you, that's the same.
 And that one simple thing represents what we as leaders struggle with when it comes to task
 saturation, not being able to let go, holding onto these tasks, thinking if we don't do
 these tasks, then what?
 Right?
 Because one of the things, as a, you know, somebody who's very visionary, somebody who can see
 forward, someone who is very logistical in thought process, as we're talking through some
 of the stuff that you're going to be taking on, for me, it's big, it's big stuff.
 These are big pieces.
 For you, it's a little nebulous.
 It's a little, I, I see, but I'm not there.
 I need more, you need more detail, your C kicks in.
 For me, I can see, oh my gosh, we literally have, you know, the examples of you being successful
 in this.
 And so it's pushing you more in that direction.
 And for you, it's almost like a, it's a fear.
 It's the unknown.
 Yeah, I was just going to say, it's a big fear for me because I'm moving in an area that's
 unknown.
 And I don't like change.
 And so it's like, no, no, no, no, no, let me just keep doing these things over here that I know
 how to do that I can do in my sleep.
 And I get my work from, then put me over here where I could fail.
 And if I get all these other things off of my plate, and you don't need me in these areas.
 And I go over here and I do this thing and I fail, well, then it's been available.
 And that is again, representative of what all leaders fear.
 Well, Chris, you keep telling me to take these tasks off of my plate.
 What if I do?
 If I do, and I give these to somebody else, and what if I fail at leading?
 You know, what is even leading?
 It's making people successful.
 It's digging in.
 The things we're talking about on our coffee walk, our coffee with Chris, as we go around is
 Heather, I need you to make sure that you are completely setting up the team members for
 success, especially we also just hired Jenny.
 So Jenny just came on exactly the same day that Austin came on and looking at her and saying,
 okay, how do we make sure that the stuff you're delegating, she's super successful at.
 So if we can get these things off of your plate, the task saturation, then you are freed up
 to lead more.
 You're still going to be leading your team.
 So it gives you greater opportunity to lead them, but it also gives you the opportunity to
 take on some of the bigger pieces that we would like for you to focus on because we believe
 it's going to be able to help more people and change more lives.
 So that discussion of, hey, let's make sure that you're doing this.
 What are the things that you're not doing in setting your new team member up for success?
 What are the things you need to do in setting her up for success and that became, I don't know,
 how would you say that went in your mind?
 Yeah, I think it gave me just a better understanding.
 I think one of the big pieces, too, Chris, was because my scene needs to see the vision on where
 we're going to be able to process that and step back and go, okay, these things that
 are on my plate that we're saying need to be moved and I need to train our team members to
 take over are these things moving me towards that vision or are they moving me away from
 that vision.
 And so looking at it from that sense of going, okay, I'm okay now with letting these tasks go,
 who on our team can take these tasks, who would be the best person for that task.
 And then what would I need if I were just coming in as far as training and learning to be
 successful with these tasks?
 Yeah, absolutely.
 Okay, so we are going to continue this fantastic conversation when we come back right after
 this.
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue
 when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having
 a lack of high quality communication to make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect
 of your life, it all starts with having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand
 the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with, whether it be
 at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to Chrissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and
 personality profiles for your team two day.
 Get it for your family members two day.
 As you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to Chrissacrittle.com/store2day.
 All right, we are back and we are discussing the seven enemies of your leadership success.
 And we have Heather McKeill in the studio today as we are talking through the very things
 that we discussed on our coffee with Chris Walker and the buildings today as we walked around.
 Drinking coffee and walking with you is rather interesting because your legs are rather long.
 I need a sippy cup if we are going to do this thing.
 That is so funny because we are walking like something wrong and you are like, slow down.
 The funny thing is I actually started by saying, hey, this is just going to be a nice
 little walk, we are talking with Drinking coffee.
 This is not a stroll.
 Stop running Chris.
 But at a great time in discussing these things and then as we jump into the studio, it is like,
 this is the very lessons that I am going to teach today.
 It is like, oh, forget that.
 Let's just have this conversation.
 The first thing we talked about was the task.
 Number two is incredibly important in the process.
 We have one of our the first lesson that we push into our next level of mastermind program
 is killing the leadership crazy cycle.
 What the leadership crazy cycle is, is that overwhelm.
 You are so over-tasked.
 You are doing everything yourself.
 You are getting worth from the things that you are doing.
 You don't even know what you accomplished in a day because there is too much.
 You can't get it all done.
 You can't lead your team to success because you are not able to lead because all you are
 doing is telling them what to do.
 It is just a more dictation than anything because you are so focused on all the things that
 you are having to get through that overwhelm of leaders.
 Every leader who is listening to this, I am sure it relates to it.
 I mean, I don't know if any leaders that don't.
 That is why it is the number one lesson that we push into our next level of mastermind
 program.
 Part of that process is delegation.
 One of those enemies, the number two enemy, is not delegating.
 So much can get in the way of the proper delegation.
 When we talk about delegation, one of the things that I run into for decades now is how people
 view delegation.
 What people view delegation as is, hey Heather, here's a task that I have been doing that
 I hold dear to me and I have been really good at it.
 I had really hated if you screwed it up.
 But here you go.
 Do this thing over there.
 Go to this thing.
 Yep.
 Hey, you're failing at it.
 Okay, I guess I'll just take it back because you're not going to do it like I do it.
 This is what we think of as delegation.
 Which is exactly what happened in Stratpan, plan last week.
 I said here, Andrea and Jenny, here's this thing over here, go do that because you're
 like make sure you leave through this.
 I sat there at the bar, watching them.
 But I was doing my, I was doing other tasks.
 I wasn't leading through the process.
 I was going here, do this thing over here.
 And just let them do their thing, not leading, not teaching, not.
 And you had done a lot of leading and teaching up until that point.
 So there's a lot of great stuff you've already done.
 Obviously, you'd spend a lot of time with Andrea on the front side.
 But there's still these pieces that if not completed, if not followed all the way through.
 It's not just telling them what to do.
 It's not even just explaining what to do.
 It's actually, as you're sitting there and there, when you say the bar, the kitchen that we've
 got right, as there.
 Yes, you're sitting there.
 The bar, I'm at the bar.
 As they're working through preparing stuff for this amazing event that we do, it wasn't a focus
 on how do I make sure that every piece that they're doing right now is being successful.
 Yeah.
 Big difference in properly delegating to them and teaching and having those moments and critiquing
 and helping them to grow and just hears a task, get it off my plate on with the next thing.
 But just not how you look at it.
 The thing that we do understand is that you have so much that we have put on your plate,
 as we're delegating, you are feeling the pressures, you just finished up our big event, which
 take, I mean that's super taxing on you, that's a lot of stuff that has to happen.
 We just hired two new people that came in the door, we've got more people that were bringing
 in, all of this stuff is in your area.
 And so you've got a lot of stuff that you still have to get done in the day and what you
 found yourself doing was what?
 Yeah, I was caught in my own tasks and not leading, not leading them to success, which made
 me have to go back afterwards and still spend more time, you know, spend time teaching on
 the back end because I didn't properly delegate on the front end.
 On the front side, I used to work for a guy, Darrell, who used to say, this is 20 some years
 ago, he used to say, if you had time to do it right the second time, you had time to
 do it right the first time.
 And this is what we're finding is that because of not delegating, not making sure that they're
 being successful, you have to come back through and solve the problems again.
 How is that for you?
 Yeah, I think it was looking back at it, it was just me, you know, I'm still learning how to
 lead, I'm still growing as a leader.
 And so it was just looking back over it.
 Perfect. No, what a time, not perfect yet.
 So it was just a matter of me going back and looking at, okay, how can I as a leader change
 things so that I can better lead my team on the front end and not spend, I'm wasting time
 right now, I'm wasting time by having to go back and it's not their fault, it's mine.
 By I'm thinking I'm accomplishing something by giving them a task and doing the other
 task that I have on my plate that I need to get done and I'm so focused and seem-oed of getting
 checking off that box that if I would just slow down step back, take the time to lead and
 teach properly, it's way more efficient.
 So what are some things that you need to do to make sure your team is set up for success?
 So a big piece for me is setting that time, setting that time with that team member to
 walk through the things that I'm trying to get off my plate to make sure that she has everything
 that she needs, that she doesn't have any questions that are unanswered, that she's confident
 in completing this task with excellence, that she has complete understanding on the importance
 of the task, not just the task itself, but how it affects other things that are going on
 in the office and making that a priority, setting that scheduling that time on my calendar to sit
 with her.
 You know, weekly go over the tasks and be able to ask those questions if we miss something, how
 is this missed, why was it missed, what can I do to help make sure that you're successful
 going forward?
 And how do you make sure that she has all the right information to be successful?
 By asking questions, finding a question, right?
 Like what?
 Yeah, just like I said, by asking if she fully understands the task, if she feels confident in
 the task, if there are any questions that she has, if there are anything that she's on
 sure of, just getting in and digging into making sure she's confident and knowing what all
 is entailed in the task, what?
 And what if she feels?
 Then I need to take a look at me and find out where I didn't communicate or where I could
 have trained better.
 Do you rip her head off?
 Yes.
 Of course you do.
 Thanks, get me a deal.
 You better.
 Yeah.
 That's what we do right here.
 You were a people's head off.
 No, it's a conversation.
 It's a conversation that starts with, you know, taking a look at me, going, okay, where did
 I miss communicate or where did I not lead well enough in this process and asking her,
 hey, how did we fail here?
 Why did we fail here?
 What was lacking?
 What could I have done better?
 What do you need from me?
 All those pieces, yeah.
 This makes me so proud as I'm sitting here as my leader answers as I teach everybody.
 Start with you.
 Yeah.
 You have to look at you first.
 What did I not do well?
 That is keeping them from being successful in the moment.
 Well, there's things that you are passing on to Austin, that you're training Austin on, that
 he's going to be taking on, like producing the show, right?
 The end Austin already has a great background in doing stuff like this.
 So that's fantastic.
 But there's things that you have to set him up for success for.
 Great thing is it's probably going to be considerably less than training somebody else
 in a different administrative role.
 But still, how do I make sure that Austin knows how we do this and, you know, and give
 them the freedom to be able to bring his gifts and talents into it as well?
 So I love hearing that.
 So guys, what you're hearing is you've got to make sure that you are setting them up for success
 by making sure they know how to do what they need to do.
 By asking tons of questions, does this make sense?
 Is there anything that doesn't?
 Are there questions that you have?
 Can you see where you're going to be successful?
 Can you see where you're not going to be successful?
 Sometimes expecting pride to hold them back, right?
 You know, a new person coming into our building, it's not difficult to step in here with wanting
 to please everybody, people that have been here for a long time.
 Still have that struggle of, I need to please somebody instead of focusing on, no, how do
 I be successful at what I do?
 And of course, we're big on, you know, do your work as unto the Lord.
 So not delegating is another big piece that can absolutely hold back your leadership
 and for you, it's been something that has held you back because again, we're looking at that.
 I'm going to be superwoman.
 Right, absolutely.
 And you even have the mug.
 Thank you, Andrew.
 No, that's Wonder Woman.
 Thank you, Andrew.
 Actually, get to that mug.
 Third thing that is an enemy of your leadership success is caring more about yourself than
 your team.
 And what we're saying here is, if you don't like paradox, then you might not like this,
 when you make your team successful, then by default, you become successful.
 It's something we teach at every leadership event.
 You know, it's your job to make your team successful, not the other way around.
 But here's what you need to understand.
 When you do make them successful, you know, what's the fear?
 Well, if I make them successful, then you know, all the things that we've already talked about,
 what's going to happen to me, what's my worth?
 What's my value going to be?
 If you make your team successful, then you by default become successful.
 So how do you see this as something that's been an enemy of your leadership success?
 So what you're saying is it's not about me.
 Hey Heather, it's not about you.
 So I've ever said that before.
 Just a few times.
 Just a few times.
 So I was actually reading last night and they were talking about me, things being all about
 me and what's the book you're reading?
 Why her?
 So it's about comparison and about trying to be this inauthentic person.
 And so one of the things that they had said was me represents my desires over everyone else.
 And I thought gosh, that is so powerful to remember when you're looking at when the focus is
 on you, you were taking your desires, your wants, your needs, over everybody saying they're
 more important than everyone else, which is the opposite of becoming a successful leader
 and leading your team to success.
 If my focus is on me, my team's going to fail.
 But if I get out of me and I focus on them, focus on their personalities, now focus on their
 needs, their training, what they need to be successful, I win in the end.
 And you do.
 And the crazy thing is that there's a couple of ways we get there, right?
 There's the pride.
 There's pride of, well, it's about me.
 Which is obviously an insecurity.
 I'm the one who's in control.
 People are supposed to do this for me.
 They're here to make me successful.
 Then there's the version that you have been dealing with, which is fear, right?
 Is it more fear than anything?
 Yeah, definitely.
 How so?
 It's me protecting myself.
 It's me going into self protection mode and caring more about not getting hurt, not failing,
 not my root system screams at me that you're going to be a failure, you're not going to be
 liked, you're not going to be.
 You have to protect you or nobody's going to like you, you're going to, everything's going
 to fail all those things.
 All going to fall apart.
 The whole world is going to come to an end.
 Right, the whole.
 It is so about me.
 It's crazy.
 The world is about me, right?
 But seriously, that's a struggle.
 It is when you're self protecting, like I say, you can come out of the direction of pride where,
 oh, I'm the important one and there's plenty of people that come out of that direction,
 or you can come out of the direction of fear.
 Oh my gosh, you know, both of them are insecurity.
 What if I have to protect me, I have to take care of me.
 So what happens when you practice putting your team members first and you're not focusing
 on protecting you and worrying about you?
 The fear goes away, the protection goes away, the need to do all those things goes away because
 I'm focused on them.
 And how did they do?
 Amazing.
 Well, of course.
 Of course.
 The and why?
 Because I am focusing on them.
 I am taking care of them.
 I am serving them.
 You're caring more about them.
 Yeah.
 And it creates by and I think with the team, it creates loyalty.
 It creates a drive for them to be excellent.
 Exactly.
 That's huge.
 That's a big piece that I want people to hear.
 When you care more about your team, and it can be as simple as just leaning in their direction
 and their personality style, right?
 There's times I have to recognize that you will revert to your sea.
 You'll be in sea mode and I have to slow down and let you process.
 That's leaning in your direction.
 There's times you have to, I don't spend a whole lot of time in D mode.
 But when I do, I need people to lean in my direction.
 Hey, I need to logistically just bang some things out.
 So caring more about the other person can be so simple as just leaning in their personality
 style, right?
 But when we're talking about leading people to success, obviously that's one of them.
 But when you're not protecting you and you're caring more about your team members, not only
 do they have, does it create that loyalty, but it creates a greater sense of buy-in and
 ownership.
 Heather has my back and I know it.
 She has my best interest at heart and I can see it.
 How do I know?
 Because she's not defensive.
 She's not protecting her.
 She's not holding things back for me.
 She's literally pouring out into me and making sure that I'm successful, which is, again, part
 of our coffee with Chris Walk, right, of that discussion.
 And as we're on that walk, what are you, are you fearing that I'm holding back for
 me?
 No.
 Are you thinking that I'm out to take care of me?
 No?
 What are you thinking?
 I know your heart, I know your leadership.
 I've been under it for years.
 And so I know that it's whatever you're saying and teaching is to grow me.
 You know, I'm not just you, but your team, right?
 Me, my team.
 It's about serving.
 It's about caring about other people.
 It's about loving them like Christ would.
 Absolutely.
 Something that you pointed out as we were discussing through this is that there's only
 a couple of times in scripture where Jesus uses the phrase, me.
 And it's not about him.
 Right.
 It's pointing people to God, which is him.
 But the concept isn't, he's not saying, hey, look at me.
 It's showing that he is the life for them, that he is the thing that they need.
 The rest of the time, he doesn't talk about me.
 It's not a me thing.
 Yeah, it's not.
 Hey, look at all these miracles that I did.
 You see, I just did.
 I just took some mud, snuck it on his eyes and poo.
 He can see.
 I don't know.
 Yeah.
 He's not much of a self-promote.
 But if anybody could self-promote, it would be Jesus, right?
 And yet what he's constantly pointing to is not look at the thing I've done.
 It's hey, if you understand more about me, you have a better life.
 You have a great future.
 You have eternity with me.
 So folks, I hope this has been good for you.
 I hope you've enjoyed this.
 Take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and
 join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]