 Continuing with the seven enemies of your leadership success that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not do you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. We are continuing on with what has been a great conversation and some great response here about the seven enemies of your leadership success.
 And we have in the studio with us Heather McEill. Welcome Heather.
 Hello.
 What a hello.
 And we are we are talking through the the very things that hold back leadership success the reason why we're the reason why you're in the studio is because when we started this it was right before doing this show.
 You and I had a great coffee with Chris moment. We walked around the building with our coffee our Delanos discussing leadership and the future and the things that you're doing and all that kind of fun stuff.
 And in that process I'm leading you through these very seven enemies. I don't I think we actually hit every single one of them are really pretty close to it.
 I believe we had just about everything on and just our conversation and the concept of the conversation was I'm leading you you're moving we're moving you into a even bigger area.
 You've got your team has been growing and we just hired another person for you we have probably another person that may be coming on under your leadership shortly so it's growing growing growing and you know I just want me doing my job to make you successful as one of my leaders.
 We're out there talking through the things that you need to do we saw some struggles recently because of the added pressure of the events that we're doing you you were the one who was over the next level leadership live event you train your tip that's your team that pulls that off and it's your success and your skills which we would not even do if I tell people this all the time we would never even do that event if you weren't here.
 We would only do smaller stuff because you you you're my security blanket you and Aaron West you're you guys are my security blankets for pulling off that event and I just wouldn't do it if I didn't have you out there because you know I I don't have the time.
 You know it's funny years ago 10 years ago I train you trained me out there and you all doing this stuff and you become way better at it than I have ever been.
 So just that that pressure of having to pull off the big event we've got the events that are coming on we have two new hires that just came on that you're.
 I'm putting to the process as we got all the stuff going on and.
 God is good God is amazing he's growing us in praise God but what we notice in that process is that there's some things that with all this pressure and stuff on your plate and the stuff that we have on your plate.
 There's some areas that we needed to tighten up hey we need to make sure we're setting up this brand new person for success and we've been kind of talking so that's what we went and talked about and you've been so amazingly vulnerable to come on the air.
 That's what I'm talking about and I'm talking about that's what I'm talking about and I'm talking about that's what I'm talking about and I'm talking about that's what I'm talking about and I'm talking about that's what I'm talking about and I'm talking about that's what I'm talking about and I'm talking about that's what I'm talking about and I'm talking about that's what I'm talking about and I'm talking about that's what I'm talking about and I'm talking about that's what I'm talking about and I'm talking about that's what I'm talking about and I'm talking about that's what I'm talking about and I'm talking about that's what I'm talking about and I'm talking about that's what I'm talking about and I'm talking about that's what I'm talking about and I'm talking about that's what I'm talking about and I'm talking about that's what I'm talking about and I'm talking about that's what I'm talking about and I'm talking about that's what
 And the process part of that process is that I make you successful and the very thing that we were talking about is you making your new team member successful and the process and so we went through the very first three things.
 And the tasks at the same time.
 And the things that we were doing is we were doing the things that we were doing and we were doing the things that we were doing and we were doing the things that we were doing and we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we were doing the things that we
 And we're talking about the things that we're talking about and we're talking about the things that we're talking about and we're talking about the things that we're talking about and we're talking about the things that we're talking about and we're talking about the things that we're talking about and we're talking about the things that we're talking about and we're talking about the things that we're talking about and we're talking about the things that we're talking about and we're talking about the things that we're talking about and we're talking about the things that we're talking about and we're talking about the things that we're talking about and we're talking about the things that we're talking about and we're talking about the things that we're talking about and we're talking about the things that we're talking about and we're talking about the things that we're talking about and we're talking about the things that we're talking about and we're talking about the things that we're talking about and we're talking about the things that we're talking about and we're
 The huge about here communication is massive.
 It's the number one issue for every business coming in through a strap line we just finished up a great strap plan last week and sure enough.
 And that first day we spent the whole day focusing on communication and seeing how much it's holding the business back that's every single company that comes in every business that comes in we discover how much it's holding the business back.
 And it's to the tune of usually hundreds of thousands of dollars if not millions of dollars.
 I've stuff that we're not getting to because our communication is keeping us from getting there.
 So communication, I like if high quality communication will destroy a business so destroy a team it'll destroy just people that are working together on a team.
 It doesn't even have to be a whole team it can really impact a small area so how do you see that as being one of the things that's been something that's held back your leadership success.
 Yeah, this is a big piece for me because I struggled communicate well.
 I can quickly make assumptions and so there's a lot of times where we'll be having a conversation or and I'll need to communicate something and I just automatically assume you know what the thing that I'm talking about and so I leave out all these pieces chunks chunks chunks.
 My phrase is usually Heather do I know what you're talking about.
 Well of course I know what I'm talking about.
 I started you in the middle of this thing how do you not know.
 And so I've really learned that it's a I do it a lot and I don't just do it here I do it at home I do it with my kids there's so many details that me my high sea leaves out when I'm communicating.
 Especially when I'm trying to lead a team member this is a big piece that if I'm not properly communicating and giving them all the details and making sure that they understand I'm not setting them up per success.
 So give us some examples of the things that you're doing to make sure that you have high levels of quality communication with your brand new team member or your team period.
 And so what you have the conversations is the first big thing for me is not assuming that they know what they're what they're doing or what they're expected to do not making those assumptions first of all and just getting in there and having regular conversations or 15 minute powwows in the morning checking in seeing how things are going what's on their plate.
 And I'm going to be talking back and asking the question does everything I just did everything makes sense to you that I just said do you have any questions.
 Did I leave anything out because depending on their personality style they may need more information or something I said may have been confusing or you know there are so many.
 And I think that the communication could have fallen through that.
 And this is something that's interesting because you have a good amount of C and you will vastly between S to see you've got some I and you you want it to be a big which is so funny.
 Which is hilarious because we have tons of I in this building that's for sure but we have a lot of C in this building as well that is something that I am just this is what's made me successful I surround myself with people who are brilliant in the areas that I suck.
 And so I have this you know you leading this team of Cs and Ss and you know personality styles that are very administrative.
 Doing the operations of the business all that kind of fun stuff and something that's always funny to me when it comes to high seas leading high seas.
 Now if a high sea is leading high high D someone to like that they will give immense amounts of information like please stop take your scrolls away.
 I got it on the first scroll the seventh scroll is not going to give me any more you know it's so much information and then a C turns to a C.
 And it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a C and it's a
 If you're not giving good quality information well let's take olive oil.
 That is a great example.
 So we have several different kinds of olive oil in this office.
 That's a silly and that's amazing I would have multiple types of olive oil.
 And so we use certain olive oils when we're cooking for strapped plan and certain olive oils for certain recipes.
 Well I just made the assumption that you know what the good olive oil is that goes in this bottle over here and I was telling the team member this is the good olive oil.
 We keep the good olive oil in this.
 And what we mean by good is there's one that we put that we will put on top of things and then there's one that we will use that we could with right which is we don't want to use the expensive oil on the cooking stuff.
 If it's just going to like be put in boiling water or something like that we use the good stuff to go directly on the food right right and so.
 We were I don't even know how to explain this.
 Well we had there's one of the things that we do we do this Brussels sprout recipe which is fabulous now I hate Brussels sprouts my whole life my whole life I have just despised Brussels sprouts until one night I had this roasted version of Brussels sprouts that was really good.
 And I thought I can do that better I could actually eat Brussels sprouts if I do this better and so I went to town on it and worked on the recipe and it's very simple.
 But it's great and it's one of those things that we do at strapped plan that's combined with our lamb we do this phenomenal marinated lamb everybody's going to be salivating after I'm done with this then we have these purple potatoes with creme fresh and chives and.
 And I mean in caviar on it which is not like you think it is so it's not fish and so good and then we have these phenomenal Brussels sprouts that we put it's just a great fabulous meal people love I mean they talk about it for years after like when they come back they're like oh are we doing the lamb.
 And we are doing the bison so it's one of those great things and we use the good and we use the good oil on the Brussels sprouts well a couple of ends ago.
 And I think that's the best way to do that.
 Oh, no, it's been the last several events.
 The last like two yes to the last couple of something's not right here so the first time it's like something's not right this is way better.
 We're doing some different we change something.
 And I'm in the moment so I'm like hey something's not right and it's like no buts exactly the same recipe we're following the same checklist.
 We're adding the same ingredients everything fine Chris it's all but you're telling us but I think it's got to be well it's got to be my taste buds everybody ate it everybody at the at the counter was like you know we we have the team sets up a that leadership team that comes in there sitting there haven't dinner.
 And they're like no these are great this is great and I'm like no these are off these are not as good as they can be and so I thought well it's got to be my taste buds we get to the second strap plan same thing it's been about a month because we had another event same problem.
 And I'm like guys something is wrong and so my way of solving things is listen we need to come in we've been doing it's we have nailed this for years.
 Yeah something's off so we need to fix it so we need to do it during the week.
 Yeah but so just plan on we're going to do this next week during the day with the team you know a few of us.
 And we need to see what's Heather you need to go watch the process and see what's going on well in the meantime you discovered something.
 So here here I am I'm you know in the accounting I'm doing the receipts and so I get this receipt for.
 For you know a couple bottles of this lemon all of oil which at one time we did this recipe.
 We just put out a kale salad yeah that we use the lemon all of oil and I'm like what are we using the lemon all the foil and so I turned to my team and I asked her.
 I said hey why are we buying this lemon all of oil you know I thought maybe Chris had asked for it maybe he was going to do something and she said.
 Well that's the good olive oil that I use on the Brussels bros.
 And I was like a ha ha.
 Communication.
 We found the breakdown.
 I didn't specify what the good olive oil.
 But I don't know why.
 But no wonder the Brussels sprouts were better right and that is one teamy tiny example.
 But how simple is that I mean it's super simple that I just assumed you know you knew what the good olive oil was right.
 And just the lemon all of oil was expensive.
 It's good olive oil but not for Brussels products.
 And so it was great to get that fixed because that I mean think of that one example of not having high levels of quality communication.
 What is high levels of quality communication we talked about this on the first episode last week where the delegation and properly setting somebody up for delegation.
 You know when you're delegating something is going through in watching every stage them.
 But you train this team member on a ton of recipes at one time.
 Yeah.
 Is it surprising that this piece slipped not at all.
 Is it surprising that this piece got missed not at all because it was a bunch of stuff.
 But it is a process of going back through and saying let me make sure not only that I've communicated well.
 But let me watch the process and for accountability purposes.
 Yeah, was eye opening for me to go.
 Oh, I.
 That's my bad.
 Yeah, right exactly.
 And I need to get my hands back in there and make sure that she set up for success.
 Yeah, because that one piece in the moment and again.
 Oh, for clients like that.
 It's just it's just not as good as it can be.
 And so for me it was like nope that doesn't work.
 But just that one piece would have to feel something else.
 What if it was the.
 The thing that was going to make a client successful.
 What if it was the thing that caused a client to not be successful?
 What if it was the piece that was misunderstood on a contract that now you.
 Oh, tons of money because we missed it.
 Not having that communication not having those high levels of quality communication.
 In every aspect of the business one teeny tiny example of olive oil affected the outcome of something.
 But it was great that it got it pointed out on something small that it wasn't something that was huge like I say like a contract.
 Where you know, I've had in the past where I've had a team member going through a horrible divorce that missed things on contracts and it cost me.
 Two times in a row, I mean like immediately cost me about 40 grand.
 And it was one of those situations of this is something this person does all the time they never missed this isn't this not even a thought.
 This is something missed in all the time, but somebody in a bad situation going through an emotional issue going through junk can miss things.
 So I mean just even like you know on a like I say like on a contract if you haven't communicated the process well and ends up costing us tons of money.
 Because it wasn't communicated well or you know any any situation like that this is a great example that points to something this small something this easy to miss.
 Well scale that bad boy.
 What if it still affects the excellence exactly exactly.
 So communication we and we talk about this a lot because we do disc we're huge on disc and values.
 We do the disc plus which kids both of those.
 I've been teaching on the stuff for decades. So really we're using this that there's why we're not using a much bigger thing to point out is because you do a phenomenal job even though this is something that yes you do see these areas that you have.
 You have held back out or you've not given good quality information on as a whole you do a great job but this point out you know some of those areas.
 And the reason why you do a great job is because you've studied this stuff for many years as well and learning how to communicate the personality styles.
 You know because we talk about it all the time and making sure that it's a big part of our culture I mean it's just crazy how much it's a part of our culture.
 But seeing those communication issues in bigger areas.
 So if we didn't have this as our culture it probably happened all the time.
 Oh God yeah it would be stuff that we would see it wouldn't be olive oil.
 It would be much bigger things it would be much more painful things it would be much more expensive things that we would be seeing.
 And I can't tell you how many times I've had clients that you know I used to travel around the country and teach personality styles and I would have people once they would do the lesson and they would do the you know get the disc throughout their business.
 Then they would comment and it was always the same thing they would always say.
 Chris we had no clue we thought our communication was great.
 But what we've discovered is that it's chaos.
 The first time I heard that I thought well that's over exaggeration really I mean chaos.
 I've heard people use the same word over and over again after implementing the lesson and discovering wow we really do kind of suck you know and we didn't know it.
 And it's again it's not surprising like we say when we do things with strap plan that it's we spend either anywhere from a half day to a full day focused on communication.
 So if you guys have not done disc this is so frustrating for me that leaders that don't put this in their business.
 Chris the critical calm slash door get it done for your team get the video training.
 Have them take the discs watch the video communicate talk about it it will change your business number five is what I call not taxing the collective intelligence this is something that.
 We started in leadership 20.
 Good.
 Now 27 years ago.
 Yeah.
 He's counting.
 I was counting.
 I think he was like five years ago.
 You know I was back at each trade I was on the ground floor of each trade and I was in the I was the assistant customer service supervisor I was not even the customer service supervisor.
 I was a great guy back then great friend back in those days was the one who was my leader and I was promoted to this great role and discovered very quickly that I did the very same thing that everybody else had taught me.
 I started telling people what to do in a bomb I mean it failed miserably.
 The people that really liked me I mean they had this light in their eyes when I would be around the like oh Chris is a nice guy all of a sudden like he could care less about me.
 And it took me it didn't take a long it probably took me somewhere between three months to four months before I realized it and then it took probably another couple of months before I realized don't lead people the way you've been led.
 It's obviously not working.
 Ask them questions ask them what they think get their input you know draw things out of them I'm 21 years old and praise God this is something that God showed me.
 You don't have all the right answers I didn't give you all the right answers you don't if if I did nobody else is needed right so there's intelligent people around here.
 Tacks the collective intelligence which is get in and discover what people know what they think.
 What their perspective is you know gain quality perspective so that I as a leader can make great decisions and it also helps my team.
 To be able to have great perspective to make decisions on their own so talk about that how is that been something that's affected your leadership success.
 Can you say pride.
 I believe that is the word.
 Oh my goodness this really missed a Roger's music in the background right now.
 This hits my root system. I mean I have this need and this desire to be right and to know it all and most people do.
 And so especially if you're C or D or combination or if you're high regulatory or if you're high theoretical.
 Folks these are the areas especially that struggle with needing to be right and can't be wrong.
 Everybody struggles with it. As an S as you do to all the other values you do to but especially in these areas right.
 And so I'm not going to ask a quote I'm not asking questions no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no
 So I'm not going to ask a quote I'm not asking questions no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no
 But yes but I have so much to learn in a leadership role and I have great people around me.
 Why's people around me that I can lean on that I can gain information from that I can learn from.
 And I'm not even utilizing it when I don't ask questions when I don't get vulnerable and when I don't shove my pride aside.
 To go hey what would you do in this situation so I have this situation that's come up how would you approach it or what can I do differently.
 What are your thoughts how do you see it from your side all those things right and it's something I teach people all the time and whether it's in next level of mastermind or strat plan hey guys even if you have the answer.
 If you know the answer it is amazing how much buy in an ownership you will get from your team if you treat them with dignity by asking them their thoughts.
 Hey guys here's a direction I'm thinking of moving in or here's a product I'm thinking that we might do or whatever it is here's a service that I think we can provide.
 What do you think what are your thoughts what would you do how would you change this you know how do you see this where what are the holes what are the things that we're going to fail at.
 By taxing the collective intelligence you get out of you being the only one with ideas on this you being the only one with perspective.
 Well we talk about having high levels of quality communication we also talk about gaining quality perspective.
 Now perspective by itself just means point of view but what we're talking about is getting all the information you can around something to make the best decision possible.
 Yeah and when you you have it hired idiots on your team.
 No I have fabulous.
 Amazing.
 Stunning team members very smart very capable high capacity people they are operating from that administrative side which is why.
 Praise God because Lord knows I can't do that I mean I totally could.
 I could be your personal assistant.
 That would love.
 How did that?
 We would have a lot of fun and get nothing done.
 Nothing of importance would do that.
 So you've got these people that are very capable and also very intelligent and are not going to be the ones that speak up.
 They're not going to be the ones that come to you and go well Heather let me tell you what I think about that.
 Right. So if you don't tax the collective intelligence and you operate or if you don't turn to your peer leaders right and seek their input then also you're missing out on opportunities right.
 Yeah and I think it goes back to not being focused on myself.
 You know and being open to knowing that I don't have all the answers and that's totally okay.
 It's completely fine.
 But what am I doing about it?
 It's you know.
 And being able to have a leadership team being able to ask the team members not only that but digging into the word what going back to what is God say about this.
 And you know leaning on my church community reading books listening to podcasts growing and learning and seeing how is somebody else winning in this area.
 You know what is winning look like for them what are they doing.
 You using all those things to make better decisions and to gain a better perspective.
 And that's another form of taxing the collective intelligence. It's not your collective intelligence that's working around you.
 But like when you're working obviously there's God.
 What greater intelligence to tax right and like you say reading books and and shows and all that kind of fun stuff that's an in effect taxing a collective intelligence.
 But how amazing is it when you turn and get buy in an ownership from the people that are working with you because you treat them with dignity in the process.
 So what is one of the things that you can teach people today that they can do we have we actually have a saying especially during the strat plan which would be.
 Hey ask a freaking question ask a freaking question.
 Because what do people tend to do make statements I am I make a lot of statements I've been known to make a lot of statements I'm getting so much better.
 By asking questions and not here's my opinion here's my opinion and my opinions right and it's the only right answer every single time we watch people do this.
 It shuts the whole conversation down too.
 Well well and it also shuts down anybody who might have a good idea because if we just operate off of statements and opinions then the communication is crap because over going off of is what you think.
 And so I might not throw anything in because you don't really care about what I think and we're not definitely not going to discuss it.
 Hey what do you think I think this why do you think that because of this oh I didn't even see that coming really interesting how do you think that's going to affect us this this this this.
 When you care more about somebody else's opinion and thoughts and you tax the collective intelligence then you're not focusing in on it being all about you.
 It's not about you it's not about you ask a freaking question and find out what somebody else thinks.
 You know tax the collective intelligence so well and here's the big thing though when you ask the question because I've done this too I've asked the question and then I've shut that shut it down.
 How so like I you shut down the answer I shut down the answer.
 Yeah, which which completely.
 I think it's the reason for asking the freaking question.
 And in fact we had a conversation about this because I did it I had.
 I was working on something I might have been an email or something and I had asked someone's opinion I had asked hey what do you think about this.
 And the moment she opened up and started to tell me her thoughts.
 Oh that's I automatically I shut it right down and I remember you were sitting over at the table and you didn't say anything.
 And I was so focused on me I was so focused about getting my task done getting my stuff done.
 Why did I ask her the question I shut her right down and afterwards I was I was frustrated and I went to you and you said and you were like.
 Hey.
 So let's talk about things.
 Is that me?
 That's so the reason.
 Hey.
 So what just happened there.
 That is exactly me, isn't it? Hey.
 So what just happened?
 It is so funny to see me.
 Yeah.
 But now that's exactly what happened.
 But I completely instead of being open to receiving what she had to say instead of being open to going.
 Huh. You have a good point there.
 I completely shut it down because my answer was already the right answer in my head before I even asked her the question.
 So I say all that to say that's I mean that's one of the things that I knew.
 I just asked her questions.
 I just ask a question ask a question and be open.
 Yeah.
 Absolutely.
 It gets you out of the way.
 It gets your pride out of the way.
 Yeah.
 And again if you think it's all about you then you just keep trying to do it by yourself.
 Right.
 Right.
 That the reason why I surround myself with amazing people is because I am 1000% sure it's not about me.
 For me it's about God.
 So I ask a lot of questions.
 Okay.
 Folks.
 So wow.
 We are going to have to end this here.
 This is going to be a three-parter.
 Did not see this coming.
 Wow.
 We came into cut one episode and it has been so powerful in such a good information.
 We're going to have to cut this into three different.
 I think we should just record all of our meetings.
 Just have to put it all out there on the podcast.
 What is the Chris and Heather meeting right there?
 So again folks, we've come through now five of the enemies of your leadership success.
 And we will be back next week with the other two the last two.
 And there's so much more than just seven.
 But these are the seven big pieces that we want you to learn from.
 So as always take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]