 Part three of the seven enemies of your leadership success that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks and welcome back for three weeks in a row.
 Why thank you.
 Heather McKeale is joining us on the show again because we started an episode.
 So let's not-
 You're gonna miss me when I'm the-
 I'm so gonna miss you when you're gone.
 You're not leaving.
 But it's so funny that three weeks ago I stepped into
 doing episode called the seven enemies of your leadership success
 and right before that we actually pushed it a little bit because you and I had a
 went and had a coffee with Chris walk around the building.
 Our vitamin D walk where we grabbed our cups of
 Delano's coffee that we love so much here and walked around the building.
 We keep telling people that by the way you can get a discount.
 You can.
 If you want tell them where to go.
 Go to Delano's.com.
 Use Cilo Trot.
 All one word CLO to your IBE and get 15% off.
 So go do that.
 So we're walking around with our coffee and talking because we've brought on more people on your
 team.
 We've just had a bunch of stuff happen in the last month, month and a half
 with the big event, the next level leadership live event which you were the one who makes
 you know so successful you and your team.
 We've had the hires, we're hiring more people.
 We've got so many things going on and at the same time we're trying to get stuff
 off of your plate so we can move you into even bigger things because
 it's not that you're so much more successful.
 It's more strength, more gifts and talents that you have that we're taking some of the
 task tasks off of you that you shouldn't be doing anyways because you have a
 growing team that can take care of these things.
 But also that way we get to utilize your gifts and talents even more.
 So we're having this discussion on leading and leading your team to success and some areas that
 you needed to focus on. We come in here to get this as you're trying one of the things you're
 transitioning is the production of this on over to Austin who's another new hire that we have
 or so glad to have Austin cook on the team.
 We're sitting there and you're like hey this is literally the conversation that we just had
 walking around the building. So we have been going through the seven different areas with the
 incredibly vulnerable Heather McKeel where you have been so greatly vulnerable with people and
 talking through the areas of things that you've struggled with and how you're fixing those
 things and things that you've done and stuff that I've struggled with through the past and
 how we even come up with this stuff and the things that we teach are from my failures and
 all that and people who failed and so much God stuff. So it's one conversation we thought we were
 going to have is turned into three episodes. It's crazy. Well done Heather McKeel apparently you
 got a lot of say. I got a lot of stuff to say. You got a lot to say. So we're starting back in today
 with the last two, the last two enemies of your leadership success and so starting with number six
 and this is a tough one. Victim mentality. Victim mentality is the I am a victim now. I almost I would say
 sub 5% of people see this coming and when they see it even when they see it they're pissed. They don't
 like to see this but very few people actually recognize that they're being victims. How has victim
 mentality held back your leadership success? Yeah I think you're your spot on by saying we don't recognize
 it because for years I did not recognize that what I was saying my word vomit was was it was bad.
 I didn't get that that was me being a victim. I thought that was me sharing my feelings. Right look
 what's happening to me. I was entitled to feel this way because somebody offended me. No, I'm not
 in no detail anyway. It's been. No but he can do anything to me. They can highly suggest that you
 feel away but it's you receiving it that makes you the victim. Yeah I have to choose. And I didn't
 get that. I didn't get that. Even going through my next level of life I still struggled through that
 afterwards because it was so ingrained in me. I would say in early days of your leadership in the
 early days there were times and again I think a big piece of this also comes down to your finding
 worth and me which I'm constantly pushing my team members do not. Don't come into your work
 as into me. Do your work as into the Lord. Don't put me out of pedestal. I do not but I'm no different than
 anybody else. The difference is that I am the leader. That's the difference. And that while that is
 a difference and you know in God's perspective you should have respect for your leader. There's a
 massive responsibility that comes with leadership. So putting a leader on a pedestal is ridiculous.
 Any leader allowing themselves to be on a pedestal is ridiculous. It's a waste of time. It's going
 to affect you negatively. So I think in the early days of your leadership one of the things that I still
 saw was that need for my approval that I don't want to look stupid in the eyes of Chris. I'd
 think that that would be something. So I need to have the red answers or whatever. So if I
 called you on something, how did you respond? Yeah, I was going to say. So one of the big things that
 would happen was I would push that responsibility off to that team member. It was their fault.
 Or back on the knee or back on anybody but myself. I couldn't I would not take responsibility.
 Which sucks to say. But truth bomb. It really was where I was at because I wasn't at a
 place to go. You chose not to teach them properly. You chose not to spend the time to ask questions.
 You chose not to get in there. It was, well, I gave them the task. I told them what to do.
 It's not all I fault that they don't know how to do it. Right. You know.
 And that's how I led. I mean, that's what it was. Well, and it's what you've been taught.
 I would definitely. Other in other areas, other places that you've been that you worked and stuff like that.
 So bringing that into your leadership with me is not surprising. And let me say this.
 Every single person listening to this, you've been here if you're in leadership. You've been a victim.
 You have thrown other people under the bus. I have done this. I had like in my early days of leadership.
 I wanted it to be somebody else's fault. The problem is it was just staring me in the face that it was mine.
 Right. I wanted to blame other people. Now again, I also was heavy people pleaser. So I took a lot of
 the responsibility and they'll blame myself. But it didn't make it any different. Oh, if they would just listen better.
 Well, if they would just understand, well, all of its victim mentality. Mm-hmm.
 And it goes, it's not just that work. Like it. It's an invades your whole life.
 Everywhere. When you operate that way. Everything is an issue. Oh my gosh, that parking spot.
 You know, I mean, you listen to the self-talk throughout the day. So how many things am I being a little victim about?
 And you taught me something that sticks with me and I use it now because
 it helps me get out of that victim mode is if I find myself doing the whole poor me and, oh my goodness, I can't believe this happened to me.
 And how about that? How about that? Shut up. Listen to yourself. You know, and it's like, oh wait,
 I'm being a victim again. Yeah, it's something that I have had to use in my life for negative self-talk.
 It does not. So let me be very clear on this because some people think, oh, just stop there. No, no, no, no.
 That's the shocker. When your brain is going negative negative negative negative negative negative negative
 Shut up. Yeah, from there then I can go what's the truth? There you go. What really happened? What your response?
 So before I would go, if something happened, if conflict happened, I would spend my time
 focused on what the other person did wrong. Right. And playing the victim. Now I can go,
 what was my responsibility? What role did I play in this conflict?
 Yeah. And learn and grow instead of being that victim instead of staying in that place of
 something changes when you feel sorry for you. Yeah, I cannot tell you. I am so loving doing these two
 episodes with you because I am so crazy proud of you. I am so crazy proud of you. You're
 growing. But I mean, I'm so crazy proud of your vulnerability to get on. I mean, I had no clue
 when we were like, hey, let's just jump on and do this and talk about what we just talked about that you
 would get this vulnerable. And I'm so proud of you because it helps. But when people hear me talk about my
 failures, it's amazing. I watch business leaders, business owners, when I'm going, hey, I screwed this up.
 I used to do this. This is a problem. I still struggle here. I still have to do this. It helps them to say,
 oh, so you, you screw up with that too? Oh, okay. I don't feel so bad. Now I can work on me.
 Right. So, hey, I'm just so again, another left turn. I'm just so proud of you for getting on here and
 being so vulnerable. But it is so awesome to watch you as a leader grow. And it's just, it just,
 yeah, it just absolutely shows me that this is where God has you and where he's sent you and
 where you're supposed to be is doing these things. So there you go. There's my little emotional
 moment. It's like, what is it? We say, day three, it next level leadership level event. Chris is going to
 cry. There's going to be something that happens like, I'll just press the cry. All right. So number and that should
 be number that is 6.5 is being a worse. No. Number seven of the enemies of leadership success is
 distractions. Every single person deals with distractions and they can be all kinds of things. It can be
 the team member interruptions. The death by thousands slash is I don't remember whoever came up with that,
 but somebody will probably tell us. But the constant where you have team members that come to you
 with 20 questions a day or 40 questions or just constantly interrupting you. It could be for,
 for some of our clients, it's clients of theirs that constantly disrupt their day instead of setting up
 quality times and saying, hey, write down everything that you have. Let's sit down and focus on this.
 It could be not closing out your day. This is again, this is one of the big pieces of killing
 leadership crazy cycle where we teach on how to close out your day so that it doesn't become a constant
 distraction throughout your whole night. The time with your family, you don't know what you're doing
 when you walk in the door. Everybody thinks, oh no, I'll just pick up where you don't have a clue.
 You walk in the door and it takes time trying to figure out and then you go in 17 different directions.
 It could be focusing your time and energy in the wrong places where this is a big thing for a
 lot of leaders. This is people, I don't care if you're a leader, business owner, team member.
 Wherever there's conflict, we tend to not focus on it. There's a lot of things I put on the back
 of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back of the back
 of the things I can't be around people. I have to. We live by carousel. I make it so very nice.
 But the point is, even if I'm going somewhere nice, it's going someplace distraction free.
 Where I will go to some place that's an off-season so people aren't there. I'm there and I get to
 be distraction free and do the thing I need to do. There are times, there are times because I was
 working on the lessons for the last event that I could be at home trying to write and going,
 you know the laundry needs to get done. The kitchen needs a little cleaning right now.
 Things that I do not do. I do not adore to do in my life. These are the things that I'm
 so happy to do laundry. There's things that I will all of a sudden go, I need to go do this
 because I'm stuck and it's the conflict of push through. Don't be a door focused on getting this thing
 done. It may be conflict and writing for me is not conflict. It's a big process that I've got.
 It's time consuming. I get to get the momentum going. If I can get my mojo,
 then I can just run on it. I also have those periods of creativity and periods that are not
 creativity. I find myself filling my time with distractions. I've got to answer all of these emails.
 None of those emails are important. I've got to go do this thing. That's not important.
 So distractions can destroy your leadership because it's not focused on what is important and that
 would be leading people. How is that affected you? Yeah, and you're not being efficient either.
 I think in back in January when I so I usually go away and set my goals for the year to some place
 nice and we live like seriously through. Well, you know. So back in January when I went,
 I had all these goals that I wanted to do. Well, one of the big pieces that I realized is that
 I can get so caught up in all these things that I want to do and cool things that need to be done
 that I go in 20 million different directions and never reach my goal because everything around me
 doesn't lead me to that goal. Right. So bring that back to here. I really took a hard look on
 what's email is is a big distraction for me here. Awesome. Because I'll be in task.
 Those nice little reminders that come up on the right hand side. I think, oh fire, somebody needs
 something from me. Somebody needs me. The little notification that says somebody has email juice.
 Somebody needs me. And I stop and I go and I get distracted because I may be in accounting or in the numbers
 and I'm pulled out of it. And so I do this thing over here and then I go back to the numbers and it takes me
 20 30 minutes to get back into the routine of things. You know. And so the email notifications was a big piece
 for me to go closer. Email out when you're focused on these things. Go back to your email, you know,
 check your email first thing in the morning, check it before you go to lunch. You know,
 the process that we put in place is to go that it's easy to slip in and out of when you get out of that habit.
 Turn off the notifications. Turn off the notifications. Turn off the notifications of your phone.
 I cannot tell you how many times we've been in meetings where, you know, we may be out for lunch meetings
 and we have our phones on us and they're going off and it's lighting up and it's completely
 distracts me from the conversation from what's going on and I miss important pieces that I need to
 I need to know. Yeah, that's one of the things that my phone is constantly. It's always face down.
 It's always face down. It's always face down. Because I don't look at my phone as the thing that I'm
 supposed to do for everybody else. My phone is for my convenience. And so for me, any time it
 lights up and you've seen me do this in staff meeting with people if they put their phone down
 and it lights up. I will ask them to flip it over because my eyes, I can be talking about something
 in my eyes get distracted and go to their phone because something lit up and it's, I don't care what's on
 their phone. I don't want to see what their stuff is. But it's the distraction we've been trained
 that at that phone lights up, there's an urgency. Right. And we have to look to it. And so that's one of
 the things that I will tell people and staff meeting. Hey, if you guys are going to put your phones
 out on the tables, do me favor flip it over. Just so we're not seeing that distraction because it
 literally does take away and you're right in meetings. We did a great book, cheese eight years ago, nine
 years ago, ten years ago, were you working for me when we did time traps by Tad Duncan? Yeah.
 So that's something we probably need to take the team for. Man, that's been so long. But just
 little things of turn the notifications off. Turn the notifications off. The other thing that I
 did that helped what as far as the email goes was unsubscribing. Tad on the show. I'm positive.
 Tad is a continuous intuition. Pod cast a question about that.
 Unsubscribed from anything you do not. Oh my goodness. I did not realize how much
 the hundreds of emails in my inbox. But the other cool thing is we, there's a program out there called
 like unroll or something where if it's not something that you want to unsubscribe to, but you
 it rolls it up a daily. It'll roll up into a daily one email. You can take a look at it and it has
 all those, you know, subscription emails in there so that you're not bombarded with emails all day long.
 That was a huge help. The two shutting off the notifications for me. Just don't roll up Chris
 Lakuro when it comes into inbox. It's super important. I just don't subscribe. Oh, yeah.
 I'm just kidding. I'm like you can check you. So turning off the notifications was a big thing for me.
 Not just that work, but at home too. You talked a little bit about circadian rhythm. So I have learned
 that there are certain times in the day that I am just not as productive period. Sorry. It just
 that's where my body is. In a specific type of way. So let me explain, let me explain for me. So I am
 super super creative from about 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. super creative. And my brain is on fire during those times.
 So that's when I schedule things that I need that brain power. Things that I know that I'm
 accounting. If I'm going to be in the accounting, I'm going to do it between those that time frame because my brain
 is the most active. So at 8 o'clock in the morning, what am I doing? I'm going through my emails.
 I'm preparing for the day. I'm checking in with the team. Maybe she remembers that they have
 everything that they need. Getting those pieces out of the way so that 10 a.m. I can hit
 you know the hard stuff. The good stuff, the stuff that tends to go on the back burner when when we need that
 brain power. And this sounds, this may sound silly to people. Oh gosh, I cannot believe that you don't
 have the brain power. And it's not that you don't have brain power. It's that you're more creative
 in those moments. And you do have more, your brain does kick into a different gear. This is all kinds of
 people. These musicians are incredibly, they're circadian rhythms tend to lean towards nighttime. They can be
 incredibly creative towards nighttime. It's a different part of the brain different time, different all kinds
 of things that are set up and it has to do with your environment. There's all kinds of things that
 collage your circadian rhythm to be the way that it is. But you will notice the different. It doesn't
 mean that you stop thinking, you don't, you brain doesn't start thinking until 10 o'clock. It means
 that you're your brain kicks into a different gear at that point. For me, I have a marked difference on my
 creativity at about 430. The whole thing, you guys all know this. You guys schedule things around.
 Hey, don't have, don't come to him with, we have to create this whole thing at 430 because Chris
 has been creative all stinking day long. His brain needs to, you know, it's not, it kind of shifts.
 Like I notice a big difference. It doesn't mean that it can't still give creative answers. I'm still
 able to use my intelligence. None of that changes. I'm just not as creative at that time.
 Yeah. And so that's a big key is that that can also be another distraction in your life. As if
 you don't realize when you are most creative to get things knocked down. Yeah, and here's the cool thing
 is if you figure that out, if you figure that piece out, you are so much more effective and productive
 throughout your day. You know, at 3pm when I hit that low, if I just get up and I take a lap or
 outside or take a lap. Take a lap, take a lap, girl. It gets in vitamin D. It just, it triggers me to
 you know, triggers me to keep going. But then I have this low time until about 8 o'clock at night
 and then between 8 and 10. I'm on my brains on fire again. So it's a great time for me to dig in
 a podcast to do. You do do things to dig in the word. You know, so it helps me to stay efficient if I
 understand those and I'm not distracted throughout the day. Absolutely. I've discovered I do my
 reading in the morning for knowledge. I do my reading at night to go to bed. So because it helps me
 to put you to sleep. It's amazing how long it takes me to read a page at night time compared to a page
 in the morning because my focus is in a different place. And it just depends. Sometimes it kicks
 into gear and it works and some, but most of the time it does a really good job of just bring
 coming my brain down. So folks, there you go. Thank you so much for coming in. This has been fun.
 This has been a blast. It's been great having you on and talking through all of this fun stuff.
 And thank you again for being so vulnerable and being able to talk through the things that you've learned
 and that you're growing through and how much you're changing as a leader. It's been powerful to watch.
 It's great to know that, you know, like I said, sitting here listening to you. The stuff you teach
 actually works. That's not a yes. That the people that are close to me actually do the things that I
 did. We know that it works. We want you. We see it, but it's great to watch it in action
 because so much of the stuff that we send out over a show. We don't get to see. Once in a great while,
 well, here's somebody say, oh my gosh, this has changed my life. And so we love to hear that stuff.
 But it's always fun to watch. I already know that you've grown. I've watched you grow for years.
 You know, I've seen you become the leader that you are and there's so much more you have available
 in you, which is fantastic and it's fun to watch. But it is great to sit here and listen to you,
 the way the responses and the things that you say. It's like, it's like a mini you. I'm right.
 I don't know about definitely a much better version, better looking version of me. That's for sure.
 I don't know if you're a small version of me. So folks, there you have it. The seven enemies of your
 leadership success focusing on these things, working through discovering taking responsibility
 and realizing that you deal with task saturation, not delegating properly, caring more about
 yourself than your team, poor communication, taxing the collective intelligence, victim mentality,
 distractions. These are all things that are affecting your leadership success. So consider changing
 those today. What can you do? Pick out the things that you can focus on right now and start making
 some changes. Are you going to get to all seven today? Probably not. So pick them one at a time. How
 do I just this? How do I fix this? We've given you tools in these last two episodes of what you can
 do. So make sure that you're doing that. And as always, we hope that this has helped you out and you
 have enjoyed this. So take this information, change your leadership, change your business, and
 change your life. Enjoy this on the next episode.
 [Music]