 How to motivate your team with money, part one of our profit sharing series coming up right after this.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show, where we discuss leadership and life, and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are. Welcome to the show folks. Hopefully you are
 enjoying your day wherever you are. We are having fun here in good old sunny Franklin, Tennessee.
 Well, little bit sunny, little overcast. Today we're talking about how to use money to motivate your team.
 Now, obviously if you're a business owner, this is going to speak directly to you, but for those of you
 that are leaders, this is something that may be a discussion that you want to have inside of your
 leadership team. Might be something you want to bring up, but keep in mind that obviously if this is
 if this is being paid out by an individual owner, then it may be a touchy subject. If it is not,
 if you have a owner that is in a place where talking about things like profit sharing is doable,
 great fantastic. That's awesome. Just keep in mind at the end of the day. This is one of the things that I
 always try and help team members to understand. There's a world of difference. If you've never owned a
 business, I own four. I've run many more than that. If you've never owned a business, it is very
 difficult to understand what a business owner takes on. This is my front side caveat to kind of give you
 some understanding or give you some things to think about as we talk through this. For those of you that
 are team members or leaders are not in a position to be giving of profits to understand that when a
 person takes on the risk of owning a business, everybody else gets to get paid and go home.
 So if you show up as a team member, even if you do a stressful job, tough job, whatever, you're still
 getting paid. You're still getting paid the salary. You should be, otherwise why are you at the place
 you're at. You're still getting paid your salary. You're still going home. You're not carrying on the
 stress of having to make sure that everybody on the team gets paid next pay period. You're not taking
 on the stress of having to make sure that the rent payment, if you are paying a mortgage payment,
 and if you're whatever, all the utilities, all the things that go into running a business, those aren't
 things that most team members take with them when they go home. Most team members never even have
 those struggles or those that take on those risks while they're at work. Most team members don't even
 really think about anything like that. But for a business owner, that's what you think about all
 the time. I believe it was a zig that said only an entrepreneur can go from sheer exhilaration to sheer
 terror and back in the same 24 hours. That's what business ownership is like. It's not the same
 as just showing up for the time period that you show up, getting paid no matter what, and being able
 to go home and not have to worry about whether or not the business is going to be operating a couple
 months from now. Those are important things to understand because as we talk about something like
 profit sharing, the worst thing, if you want to make sure you never get paid profit sharing from your
 business owner, never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, be entitled, ever. If you're getting
 paid a salary to do your job, guess what, you're getting paid to do your job. Recognize that. So if a
 business owner wants to share their hard earned money as well, that came along with their risk of running a
 business and they want to share that with you, then praise God. Hallelujah. Enjoy that. Show them that
 you appreciate that. Help them to understand that you recognize that this is coming out of their profits
 that it's something more than just your salary. So that's an important caveat as I get into this,
 because a lot of business owners want to give their team members profit sharing, but what they've discovered.
 And it's usually because they've installed it incorrectly. They haven't done a great job. They haven't
 learned from somebody how to do this. And one of these days, I'm going to teach this at, you know,
 make a much bigger lesson out of this and teach it at one of the events. But for right now, this is
 stuff that you can learn from this episode, the next episode that will help you to take care of that.
 Now, but if you have installed profit sharing incorrectly, then unfortunately, what you end up with is
 frustration. Every time you sign those profit sharing checks and you look at people and if they're
 entitled, or if it's not motivating them, then my gosh, the last thing you want to do is give them more money.
 Right? It makes an incredibly frustrating. So for you as a team member or a leader,
 understand that if you have somebody who's willing to share the profits outside of your salary,
 my gosh, never get entitled. I always let them know how much you appreciate that. I don't care if you
 have been getting profit sharing for seven years. Let them know that you appreciate that business owners.
 Understand, if you do not do this correctly, you will be frustrated. If you don't understand this whole
 concept, well, you will be frustrated. So there you go. There's my front side caveat as we go into
 a two-part or on profit sharing. So how do you use your money to motivate your team? Well, you
 hear us talk about the importance of high levels of quality communication, gaining perspective.
 Your job as a leader is to make your team successful, not the other way around. Root systems,
 senior team members as guides, kids, taking care of them. All of this stuff to have a body and
 team to be a great leader to have great communication, all that kind of stuff. What role does money
 play in that? Well, today is part one of our two-part profit sharing podcast series. We're talking about
 when to do profit sharing and how to reward your team members with profit sharing and
 profit sharing matrix. So here's my definition of the difference between profit sharing and other
 bonuses. Profit sharing is what you do with your team because you want to bless them and prosper
 them for growing your business. Incentives are something you give out to individuals or teams for accomplishing
 a specific task. Boneses are usually given out for a collective, a team objective like
 grossing more than X amount of net profit. So they're also given out to managers and executive staff
 for P&L and project accomplishments, all that kind of stuff. So we discovered that there needs to be
 a separate a lot of years ago. Back when I was at Dave's, we discovered that there needs to be a separation
 between the term profit sharing and bonuses because people do not see them the same,
 especially the different personality styles. So if you're calling profit sharing bonus,
 then bonus is something they believe they deserve. So if I said to you, hey, team, if you guys pull
 together and we make an extra 50 sales out of this product that we're putting together above what we're
 already able to do, then I'm going to give you guys a bonus of X dollars. Well, that's expected.
 If we hit that number, then I expect the bonus. That should be coming my way, right? Because that's
 what you said. Profit sharing is not the same thing. Profit sharing is saying, if we have profit,
 I'm going to take which is my money because I started this thing or I bought into this business
 or whatever on the business owner. I'm deciding to take that profit and share some of that with you guys
 above and beyond because I want to because it's my heart to. That's the difference. And if your
 team doesn't understand this, then unfortunately they could be in a place where they see profit sharing
 is something that is, again, an entitlement to them. And so we need to make sure that we're doing
 this correctly. A question that I hear all the time and I get this, people ask a lot about how to do quality
 profit sharing, you know, that kind of fun stuff. And so again, I need to someday put this together.
 There's a big lesson. What I get a lot is, so should I implement profit sharing? And if so,
 how do I do that? Well, there are a few questions I always have before I answer that question.
 The first is this, do you actually have profit? Do you have it? You would be amazed at how many owners
 or leaders have a huge heart and want to share with their teams, but it would be at a total loss to
 themselves. In other words, they might not have much of a profit, but they want to give their team some
 extra money, so I'm actually income that would come out of their own personal salary. This is not a
 good plan. How can you keep your doors open if you can't keep food on your own table? Now trust me in this.
 If your team is earning a good wage, they can do without profit sharing while you and the team
 work to get profits up. Simply put, you can't give from that what you do not have.
 Second question is, why do you want to give profit sharing? Is it because your team is doing such an
 amazing job that you want to share with them? You want to take care of them because then they've done so great
 or is it fear-based? Like if I don't give, I'll lose my team. If it's the first great job leader,
 that's great thinking. You're headed in the right direction. If it's the latter and that's what it
 takes to keep your team, you're never ever ever going to be able to do enough to keep them happy.
 Keep point here to understand. If you feel you have to give them profit sharing, more money than you're
 already paying them to do the job that they're doing, to keep them, then guess what, you're never going
 to be able to do enough to keep them anyways. You'll never do enough to keep them happy. What's the next
 thing you're going to give them so they don't leave? What's the next spiff? What's the next bonus? What's
 the next ad on, right? So if you have to do it out of fear, then I wouldn't do it at all. We
 probably have a bad culture where people are just there for a JLB instead of there for something bigger
 than themselves. Now if they're there for your profit sharing, then they are just working a JLB.
 What you want are people who are on board because they realize that what your company has to offer
 is bigger than them. You're looking for someone who's eyes light up anytime they're talking about
 the position you're putting them in. These are the people you share with. Guys, I can't tell you how
 that's how I hire. I will bypass greater talent that just sees the position I have as a JLB
 for somebody with less talent that will, you know, I'll spend money training them up
 because they're passionate about what we do. Their eyes light up when we talk about the things that
 we do. So those are keys that you have to know before you ever start profit sharing. Answer those questions.
 First, do we have profit and why do I want to give it? If you can answer those questions and you come
 up with great answers like yes we do and because it's the right thing to do because I don't have
 an entitled team or I'm not doing it out of fear, then great place to start. All right, we're going
 to talk about implementing profit sharing when we come back right after this. Folks, if you've been
 listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue when it comes to business,
 when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships is having a lack of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life, it all starts with
 having great communication. The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality
 style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with,
 whether it be at work, whether it be at home. The best way to do that is to go to crissacrittle.com/store
 and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your team two day. Get it for your family
 members two day. As you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to crissacrittle.com/store2day. All right, we are back and we're talking about how to implement
 profit sharing. So we've answered the questions on the front side. We've got a really good idea of
 the difference between profit sharing and bonuses. Now we need to ask the question, how do we implement it?
 Now, there is a ton to implementing. I'm going to give you the absolute basics. This is something
 to make it easy for you since we're doing this over podcast as opposed to at an event, which would be
 much more information. This is something you can start right now by making sure you've got the right
 matrix on how you pay out your profit sharing. So to figure out how to reward your team members through
 profit sharing program start by deciding what values are most important to you. Now for me, longevity
 is always going to be a very important value to me. If you've been with me a long time, then there's
 a reason. You must have grown over the years. If you're still with me and I've been able to grow
 you, you've been teachable and moldable, fantastic. That's going to be something that I rank you on. That's
 something that is a great value to me. Because the longer somebody's with me, there is a loyalty factor.
 Again, that shows me that they haven't come and done the same exact thing over and over and over again
 for a year after year because if they did, if they weren't growing, then they aren't going to
 still be with me. I'm going to keep pushing them too grow. If they don't grow, then they're not
 going to be able to stack because they're somebody else who will take that role and do more to help change
 more lives. So my expectation is that you're always growing. So if you've been with us for a while,
 that means that you're doing better than normal. So for me, that's one of the things that I'm going to
 base part of my profit sharing matrix on. I'm going to have that as a value. Another thing that I
 personally like to base profit sharing off of is your personal attitude. How are you to work with?
 How do you treat team members? How do you interact with customers if you interact with customers?
 Do you go out of your way to get things done? All of these things are going to be things that I
 rank you on. This is a big value to me. So it's not enough just to do your job well. It's not enough
 just to accomplish your carries. I expect that I'm paying for you to accomplish your carries. What I want to
 see is what your personal attitude. How do you treat people? How do you treat the internal client? How do
 you treat the external client? If you're not doing a good job of taking care of people, if you're not doing
 a good job of loving on people, well then that may be a problem. And for me, another thing that I like to
 base in my matrix on profit sharing is how well you do love people from for me from a Christian standpoint.
 How do you treat people? What is your heart towards people? If you just see people as dollar signs
 or if you just see people as a necessary evil for you to get paid, then that's probably not going to
 get a good ranking on the profit sharing matrix. I want to see that you love people well that you put
 them first that you take care of our clients. There's nothing I love more than to watch my team. When we have
 clients come in the building, put them first, take care of them, solve problems for them, love on them.
 My team understands that a lot of times people come in are coming in with struggles in their lives. A lot
 of times people coming in are coming in with no struggles in their lives. It doesn't matter. They're
 loving on the person themselves. And so for me, that's another value that I treat that even a
 little bit different than I do a personal attitude. But those are things that are values to me.
 Another one is it could be if you have multiple departments inside of your business. You can
 base it on profit. So if you've got no listen, I never going to be somebody who wants you to set up
 silos. I don't like silos. I don't think that they work. They can't work for a period of time.
 In the early days of setting up a business, you can set up silos and watch some people compete
 and you'll be very happy when you're making money. You are not going to be happy when you have to tear those
 things down. It is not worth it. It is an incredible difficult thing to do. So I don't like to
 set up a silos. So that's not the same as setting up a department, right? Or a division. You may have a
 division that's focusing on something and they as a division are killing it and doing a great job
 because of the efforts that they're putting forth. Their net profit, their gross revs, all of these things
 they're gross margins, however you want to base this, maybe looking better than another division that
 you have, which maybe because of a fault of their own or may not be, it's something to think about.
 If you've got a team that is just working so well together, they're absolutely killing it and
 because they're killing it. Their profit is up. Then that may be another value that you base your profit
 sharing on that you would include into your matrix. So think through those are just three or four things
 that I think through when I'm looking at profit sharing. So whenever I look at that, I always ask the
 question, what do I value? If I want to give extra money, what do I value? So ask yourself those questions,
 you might come up with other things? You might come up with how they treat their tools. If you've got
 team members that have, and you've spent tons of money on tools and vehicles and all that kind of stuff,
 then it could be that's a part of it. Whatever it is, it could be job loss, which we're probably
 moving more into bonuses than anything. But figure out those things that are values to you and then try
 input a matrix to it. How can I put a number on this? Now you may have more or less values than we have.
 It just depends on your particular situation. I don't have a problem. If you base it on longevity
 in personal attitude. Those are two great values as far as I'm concerned that you can base your
 matrix on either way. Each value needs to have a scale. Now it can be a one to 10, a one to five,
 whatever, whatever works for you. But assign numbers for those values. So figure out those values. Those
 things that are values to you that you want to pay on and then make a matrix out of those. Now I'm going to
 talk about those values and the numbers to put to them in just a second. But here's what another big
 piece I want you to understand. Don't pay out profit sharing. But for you put your savings aside
 before you put paybacks aside before. So some people will get to the bottom of their net profit and
 immediately take that number and pay out profit sharing. And then they didn't have enough money left over
 for other incredibly important things. So for me I always look after the net profit. I ask the
 questions. Do I need to save money for anything? Now I have a tendency to spend a good amount of money
 on Christmas. That's that's something I like to spend a lot of money on. I usually get in here a big
 old 11 to 13 foot Christmas tree. It's decorated well. We do a bunch of stuff. I you know, I do gifts at that
 time. There's a lot of money I spend in December. So I have a tendency to save money throughout the year.
 I'll put money aside money aside money aside. Doesn't mean that I don't have great net profit in
 December. I'm just really conscious of making sure that I have money whenever I'm going to have a month
 that I spend a lot of money in it. So whatever that could be, there's, you know, when we, when we do
 our big events, I usually spread that money out over months and make payments ahead of time. But in the
 early days, I was waiting and I would drop a big old check at one time. So I would save saves safe safe safe.
 So things to be thinking about. Do you have to save? Do you need a, you know, a sinking fund.
 Right. Do you have vehicles that are aging and you're going to have to replace these things. You're
 going to have to replace, you know, I don't know computers. Do you are going to have to replace whatever
 figure out what those things are that you need to save money for. Put the money away. Save the money.
 I'll be Chris. I'm on out to pay taxes. Well, listen, you're going to and so what? Right. The other
 thing you need to have is retained earnings. You need to have a balance sheet that makes sense when it
 comes to the amount of money that you spend. So for me, one of the things I will say is you need to have
 half of, you know, six months of your expenses. Now listen, this is the toughest thing for people to
 understand to keep your doors open. So in other words, if all sales stop right now, what is it going
 to cost for you to stay open for the next six months? Keep in mind, if all sales stop, that means you're
 not putting money into new products, you're not putting money into stock, you're not spending all that
 kind of money. So that doesn't get included. I had two gals running a concrete company one time.
 They came up to me and they're like, Chris, that would be like $2 million for six months. And I was like,
 no, you're not buying any concrete because you're not getting any concrete jobs and like, oh,
 okay, well, then it's like $200,000. Like, okay, well, that's a big difference. So whatever that money is
 to run for six months to keep the doors open, not buying extra stuff and all that. So these are all
 pieces that you need to know ahead of time. What am I savings going to be? Am I going to put money into
 things like Christmas parties, sinking funds, retained earnings, all of those things you need to be doing
 after you get to your net profit and before you pay out your profits sharing. Otherwise,
 you will find yourself giving away money that needed to be used for the business. That's not smart.
 That's not profit sharing, right? Because eventually it's going to turn around on you and you will have
 given out more than you saved. So get those numbers done. This is also before I will pay out
 profit sharing before manager bonuses. Okay, so if I'm going to pay a manager bonus or if I have
 somebody operating a P&L before I would give them a bonus, I'm going to go ahead and pay out that
 profit sharing. Because I'm going to take it as a percentage of that net profit. Whatever I think that I
 can get about, whatever I think is reasonable. I'm going to take that number out there and then I'll pay out
 any other bonuses after that. So all of that, see, there's so much. There's so much information to
 this. There's even more. I'm giving you the best I can here in a short period of time. So lastly,
 for today's show, the matrix. Now you may have one or more less value used than we have and that's
 perfectly fine. I don't have a problem if you pay out on just longevity and personal attitude. That doesn't
 matter to me. But you need to put a number on everything. Every value has to have a value. So that you
 can scale this bad boy. Now it can be a one to 10. It can be a one to five. It's really whatever works for you.
 But assign some numbers to those values and this becomes the matrix through which you distribute
 your profit. So for example, if somebody got a score of eight for longevity and three for personal attitude
 and a two for departmental profit, then their overall score is 13. So as I go through and list out
 all the people who are part of the profit sharing, I dump in the amount of money into a matrix that I've
 got into an Excel spreadsheet. That's how I do all of this stuff. Those totals will drop out
 to be multiplied against the personal number and it will show me how much money of the profit sharing that
 they get. So I know that sounds very difficult. I know that sounds very complicated and it's going to
 take you some time to mess around with those numbers. But that and it's most simplistic form. If you can
 come up with some good numbers, then scale the day lights out of it so you can see what happens if you
 keep dumping in more money doesn't make sense. Look down the list of people. Does it make sense that
 frank here is getting this dollar amount and Sarah is getting this dollar amount. If it doesn't make
 sense, you may have to make some adjustments. Maybe a scale of one to 10 doesn't work as well as a scale of
 one to six. So take a look at those things. For me, what I do is I actually just in my Excel, I take
 their the higher date and today's that I've got it set up automatically where it will subtract the
 time and give them a formula. So if you've been here over a year, it gives you a one. If you've been here
 two, it gives you a two. It's pretty simplistic. That's something I do for the longevity. For the personal
 attitude, for me it's on a scale of one to five. Again, you can do yours on whatever you want to,
 whatever works out. So again, I know it's a lot. We're going to talk about more in the next episode
 next week. With this topic, it comes a lot of questions from leaders and here are some of the
 questions we'll be covering next episode. How much to share and how much is too much? The ideal percentage,
 best practices, the biggest benefits of profit sharing and the best method of profit sharing,
 one managing different departments or leaders across multiple departments. So don't miss the next episode.
 Hopefully this helps you today. As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your
 business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 (gunshot)