 How to motivate your team with money part two of our profit sharing series coming up right after this.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do not who you are. Hey folks welcome to the show. Today we are talking again
 about how to use money to motivate your team. And if you have not listened to part one,
 go back, go back and get it. You're going to want to listen to that. So go get that information,
 come listen to part two. Today I'm answering questions from you guys about profit sharing.
 So we've got a couple that are coming in here and we're also going to have somebody live on the show as
 well. But I wanted to tackle some of these first questions. The first question I've got comes in
 from Tamarowest and the question that she asks is will profit sharing solidify my team? Well,
 so here's the thing Tamarow and by the way, thank you for swinging by the building. Tamarow was down
 in Tennessee a couple weeks ago and she swung by and graced us with her presence and that was very nice to
 have you here. Tamarow when it comes to profit sharing, solidifying and team. The answer should be
 no. We don't want to base and again, hopefully you guys listen to the first episode which will
 explain a lot of this as well. We don't want to base how solid our team is on how much money we give
 them. So again, let me just kind of hit what I hit on the last episode, we want to pay them a great
 salary for doing what we expected them. We expect a great job from them. We expect them to do their
 care as we expect that there, you know, that we don't have to motivate that daylights out of them
 to get them to do their job. When we look at profit sharing, we're looking at extra motivation.
 We're looking at above and beyond. They've done such a phenomenal job. They've done such a great job with
 the carerase. They're doing a great job of continuing to push the business for in my world to change
 more lives. A lot of y'all's worlds to make more money, to make more bottom line. So if they're doing a
 great job, then I'm choosing to share of my profits with the team. If I'm going to place where I can
 do that, you know, some people don't have enough money to share profit. So we'll let's let a file a team,
 it shouldn't. Because if it does, here's what's going to happen. If giving profit sharing,
 let a file is your team, it's going to only last for a short period of time. And then they're going to
 need something else. And then they're going to need something else. They will never be happy.
 This needs to be an understanding. I'm already paying you for the job you're doing. And you're
 doing a great job. But I'm paying you great money. That's, you know, that's exactly the way it's supposed
 to work. This is something I'm choosing to do on top of that. So that's the first part of Tim
 Ross question. The second part she asks is what are the biggest benefits of profit sharing?
 Now, if somebody's already getting a great paycheck and they know that and they're doing a great job
 and you choose to give them more money, it's a great motivator. It's a great motivator when they
 understand exactly how that profit came to be. Hey, we busted our butts. And so because we've
 busted our butts and it doesn't mean just on creating more revenue but watching expenses,
 all that kind of fun stuff. Because we've done that, now we have more profit. And that's something
 that every leader needs to explain to their team when profit sharing comes out. One of the things
 that Dave does over his place is every single month on stage in front of, I think they're up to like 800
 people now, he will say he will ask questions. He will say hey guys, profit is made when income goes
 and everybody else out up and expenses go and everybody else down. That's how profit is made.
 And because they have to understand you are making this happen. If you don't do this,
 if you don't bust that if you don't watch expenses, if you leave likes on, if you don't watch
 you know loss on jobs, if you don't, then guess what? You don't get as much money in your profit sharing.
 The more you do, the more I'll pay out because they'll be more profit for me to pay out. So for me,
 biggest benefits are a huge motivator because it's something on top of your team and
 are already doing a great job. When they know that you're already paying them for doing a great job
 and you give them more money, then it's a great motivator. It also does a great job
 of getting your expenses down because people are watching them now. They care about them. It kind of
 becomes almost the self-policing thing in the building. People turn lights off because they realize
 electricity affects our profit sharing. They don't do waste. They might find better ways,
 more inexpensive ways to do things and have an eye out for it so that they know that they're
 going to get even another piece every little piece ends back up in that profit sharing. So for me,
 those are some of the biggest benefits to profit sharing. So our next is a question from David
 Lucas. David has two questions as well and he says how much to share and how much is too much.
 So David, great questions. The first part on how much to share. Once again, if you've done
 everything else that we've already talked about last episode and some of the stuff I just shared right
 now, then the amount to share is completely up to you. Take a look what I like to do is run my net profit
 out forecast it for a year, two years. I like to look at what the net profit should be. Now this is again,
 assuming that you listened to episode one and all the things that you would do before paying out
 profit sharing, then take a look at that number and just ask yourself the question, how much of
 this do I want to share and pick that percentage? It may be if you've got phenomenal net profit, it might be
 a smaller number. If you have a little bit of net profit, it might be a bigger number. So just kind of
 depends on what you want to do. Run the numbers out, do everything else from episode one and make sure
 that it makes sense to you and then see what's left over because there's going to be something left
 over that if you want to take it home, you could take it home or do something else with it. So how much
 other isn't an ideal percentage? It's whatever it looks like it works for you. And again, run it out.
 If you don't have enough, so let's say let's say I'm paying out profit sharing and if I pay it monthly,
 it's going to look like $57 and most people's paychecks, that just doesn't work. Man, I'd rather pay
 that out quarterly, move it to a quarterly. So at least it looks a little bit better. It's up in
 160 dollars, 170 dollars or maybe it's a couple hundred dollars. So that is actually better. Doesn't look
 like the whole thing just got eaten up by taxes. So look at it kind of that way. But also,
 take a look at how much you're paying them at the end of the year. What is the number coming out
 to which leads into your next question, which is how much is too much? Again, that's going to be a
 personal thing. I feel like as a business grows, you have to get to a place where you can digest
 paying people a lot of money out of profit sharing. So in other words, what do I mean? If you've
 done a great job making sure all of your team members are up to market or better on what you would pay for
 that role, then how much of their income are you willing to pay out of profit sharing? So let's just
 get crazy here and just imagine. What if you were making so much net profit that you were paying out
 50 percent? What if the amount of money you were paying out in profit sharing equaled 50 percent of
 what they take home? So let's say you're paying somebody $40,000, they're doing a great job and they're
 up, you know, they're on the high end of what the market rate would be for that role. Would you be
 willing to pay $20,000 in profit sharing? Is that doable for you? Because if you are, what does that mean
 that you're taking home? What does that mean that the business is making? So for me, that's where you've
 got to scale the stuff out and ask the question, when do you stop paying them profit sharing? Do you put a
 cap on this or what's a percentage amount? Some people might even go up to 100 percent. It's very
 possible. So if you've got somebody making $50,000 in there, they're kind of tapped out by market rate.
 You're on the high end of their market rate. Would you be willing to pay them $100,000 total because
 profit sharing is so good? The only way you can answer that question is, well, if I'm paying them
 that much, how much money is hitting the bottom line? I mean, it must be ridiculous numbers that
 I'm just taking home so much money. I can't do enough with it. So that's how I kind of get to
 the how much is too much. Make sure that the percentage continues to work with you. But then take a look at
 what the percentage is at the end of the year compared to the amount of money that they're making as a salary.
 Compare those two, say, hey, this is as a company we're willing to go this far and that's it.
 It might be this percentage, this percentage or maybe 100 percent. It's completely up to you.
 It's whatever you can, you can digest at the time keeping in mind if you're able to pay out that much.
 Does that mean that you are making insane amounts of money on the bottom line? So on top of that,
 also one of the things and nobody's asked this today, but one of the things I look at is,
 does the person have the ability to make their own money? Can they set their own destiny? So in
 other words, is it a sales person who has the chance of making a million dollars? If so, I'm not paying
 out profit sharing to this person. They've got a great opportunity to go make money. Let's get the,
 let's pay this out to more of the administrative folks and those people that don't have the
 opportunity to set their own destiny. So great questions, David. So glad you asked those questions.
 Up next is Eric Stoll. Eric is with summer town metals and Eric is with me live. Eric, welcome to the show.
 Hey, Chris, how's it going? It's going well, man. How about yourself?
 Doing good. Then looking forward to getting your brains picked on this issue here, the situation I'm in.
 Good, good, good. You just joined our next level Mastermind Group. Just came from the next
 level leadership live event. You're plugging away at the beginning lesson of killing the leadership crazy
 cycle. How's that going? Well, it's a lot of work. It's a lot of a lot of focus, a lot of intensity
 there. And I have to remind myself that I signed up for this and I'm paying to have it done.
 So I'm going to stick with it and enjoy the results of it. What results have you seen so far?
 Oh, me. The results. I'm getting focused. I'm getting focused on my goals. And it's, I'm just now discovering
 how scattered that I have been. And how I have not consciously pointed myself in a direction as far
 as my own personal life for my business. So yeah, now I believe you're in the middle of love
 hate delegate. Has that had any good impacts for you yet? It has. And one thing to keep in mind
 I believe on that is that while you're implementing that, sometimes your workload actually goes up
 for a little bit while you're training other people, but the long-term results are going to be
 amazing. Have you been able to get anything off of our play? Yeah, yeah. I've got somebody that stepped in
 and he was stalking. I've also taken it a step further stocking inventory. And now he's ordering
 the inventory for me and maintaining inventory. So I don't have to deal with that anymore. How much does that?
 How much does that save you? That saves me probably 45 minutes a day in labor. And then it
 probably saves me about an hour in making up for mistakes that I may, when I wasn't doing job right.
 Oh, so it just brands bacon due to the program. Obviously it's causing you more time,
 but it saves you about an hour, 45 a day. That's pretty fantastic. So let's get it. It's got payoff. No doubt.
 That is good. That's good to hear. Well, you have some questions about profit sharing. So hit me with those.
 What I'd like to know and I'll explain this to you. We are in one business that does
 manufacture in a build-in materials. We do packaging and shipping a build-in materials. And
 we have a counting and several other areas of business too. I would like to reward
 three different departments in a consistent way, manufacturing, accounting, and the shipping department.
 Okay. Now question is, let me start with this. Is the so obviously you have net profit? That's not
 an issue. You have money you want to share it. So I want to point to the people that are listening again.
 Let me point you back one more time to the first episode. You got to answer the first stuff on the first
 episode so that you can do the things where Eric is right now. So you have net profit.
 I can see where manufacturing and possibly shipping are those broken out ppls. No. Okay. So everything.
 Everything's in one piano. So for me, so if those were broken out, I would pay those as divisional
 profit sharing. I would put a value basis on it. So for me, the place I'm going to go to,
 since we're taking all the money off the same bottom line. This is all the same group,
 making all this happen just different areas, wanting to pay this consistently. The first question I
 would ask is, what do you guys value most in the business when it comes to team members?
 A couple of things I shared on the first episode was, for me, I highly value longevity.
 Because if you've been here a long time, that means that I've not let you go. That means that you've
 done better than normal. You've continued to grow year after year. Because if you don't,
 it's very difficult to stay here. People will actually rule themselves out if they don't
 want to work and take care of people like we do at the level that we do. Second thing is, for me,
 I'm really big on personal attitude. As a leader of the area, so I'll have my leaders tell me
 how well team members are doing, how is their personal attitude, how are they taking care of the
 internal client, how are they taking care of the external client, what are the things that they're doing.
 And then for me, I add even more because I'm a Christian and my business is God's thing. It's based on
 him. The stuff that we actually teach is based on the Bible. So for me, I will even take it a step
 further. I want to see how much you're loving people. We're called to love people. So it's very
 difficult for a lot of businesses to even talk about something like this. But for me, it's easy.
 How will you loving people when they can, when our clients come in? What do you do? I want to watch.
 I want to see how you take care of them. Do you love on them? If they're struggling with something,
 do you lean in their direction? How are you taking care of our vendors? Sometimes vendors are
 paying in the but to work with. Are you loving on them and taking care of them? So it's another actual
 part of that that I look at. And then, like I said, if you had divisional profit, you could look at
 the different divisions. Those are some basic things that almost every business can come up with.
 If you just take the first two of longevity and personal attitude, are there other things that you
 guys look at the team members? And you say, we highly value this, we would want to give profit share,
 extra money, our extra money, we would want to pay it out because of this. To me, it's an I hope
 this answers your question. The reason for the profit sharing is to create an environment where they
 feel like they can control their wages. Basically, the better each of these leaders do, they will enforce
 new rules among their men that will step production and step productivity up on a whole new level.
 So we're making good money, we're making good money, not afraid to share it.
 Yeah. So how I would look at that is, I would look at it on the productivity side. So I would put some
 metrics around productivity. So it could be something like, you know, each there's a percentage,
 there's an extra point. So let's say, let's say I give a point for every year that you've been with.
 So if you've been with me for five years, you get five points there. Let's say I've got a grading
 scale on your personal attitude. That's from one to five or one to ten or one to six, whatever it is.
 But let's just say it's one to five and three is better than normal. So you get a three because you've
 been doing a great job. You've got to score of eight so far. So then the other piece comes into that
 productivity. I would take a look at what is normal productivity. Now, of course, this is going to
 take you some time to really look through and think through the numbers. But if normal productivity is,
 let's say we're hitting 85% of what we could hit. If we were really, really freaking busting it,
 we could do a hundred percent productivity. Let's just say that that's the goal. But we consistently
 hit about 85% productivity. Well, then I'm not going to give any extra money for doing 85%. That's
 great. That's what we should be doing. I'm paying a salary for 85%. Right? Now, there's a lot of people
 out there going on a Wal-R and I'm paying a salary for 100%. Technically, yes, you are. But there's a lot
 of factors that keep you from hitting that 100%. So if you've ever been in a business like yours,
 you know, for folks that are listening, then you kind of understand that that productivity getting
 to 100%. It's difficult sometimes. How ever incomes the incentive, right? So how do we get them from 85
 to 90? Well, maybe there is a point in an area. So let's say shipping has a productivity metrics.
 Accounting has a productivity metrics. Manufacturing has a productivity metrics. So if we put numbers
 and say, listen, you've got to be this productive and they hit that number, then maybe in that area
 they get an extra point. So maybe 90% productive gives them a point. Maybe 95% productive gives them
 two points or three points. You know, maybe they're up to a three. If they hit 100, man, maybe it's a
 five point or whatever. So let's just say that we did something like that. And there are 100% productive
 and we can measure that. So they get a five. So the person that's been there for five years already
 has a five, then they've been great personally. So they get a three added on to it. So it's now an eight.
 Man, this month or this quarter, depending upon how you pay it out, they hit 100% productivity. They get
 a five another five point or they're at a 13. So if those are the three things that we value most,
 this person now has a 13 where somebody else may have a seven. And somebody else may have a two
 because of brand spanking in which they should at least have a three unless they screw it up. And
 somebody might have a 15. When you look at those numbers, those are all, you're going to have to work
 with the numbers and figure out what feels right, what looks right. But what I like to do is run all
 those numbers of course I'm an Excel. I have very little see, but I'm an Excel freak when it comes
 to stuff like this because it's a great tool that I can use. I like to run them all down and then dump
 in the amount of money I'm wanting to pay out and see how it spreads out among the team all three areas.
 You know, see all three different areas. Now you can keep these separate. I wouldn't. I'd have
 everybody in one sheet because you're taking the net profit from one and they've already got their numbers
 according to their department. You may have to have them separated on the sheet by department
 because it gives their department score. I don't even know if you have to do that. Anyways, just mess with it.
 Once you dump that number and let's say we throw 10 grand in the top, how does that shake out by 25
 people? What are those numbers look like? And does it seem right? What you'll find is,
 you might be like, yep, I really believe that Frank over here should get paid this amount. When
 Gloria's brand spanking new and she's getting this amount, I feel really good. The spread looks good.
 It's working out. If it feels right and it looks right, then you need to scale the
 daylights out of it. What if we did 20,000? What if we did 30,000? What if we did a hundred thousand
 dollars of net profits? You know, what if we only did two thousand dollars? That's going to help you
 to really look over those numbers and see if your scale is still feeling good. If it's still what you
 want it to be. So a lot of information questions thoughts comments. First question.
 So basically, I think the what I'm gathering for you is the principle of rewarding above average
 performance. Yeah, yeah, I don't have a problem with your rewarding
 average performance, but I really believe you're already doing that with the paycheck.
 So for me, we're already paying you to do average or for me, I always tell people above normal. I want
 to above normal, but for even well above that, I will incentivize for even further. So for me,
 I feel like I should be paying. I'm always going to try and make sure that they're at least at market
 rate or above for the role that they're doing. So that should already get paid out for that. I don't
 believe in using profit sharing in that area. Some people like to use it as an incentive to say,
 well, let me give you a lower salary, but they don't have the control over the 12 people in shipping
 that aren't doing a good job. So if they're not doing a good job, now I'm not getting my salary because
 so much of my salary is based on profit sharing. Well, that's not fair. So for me, I like to have the
 salary done. I'm paying you salary. This is above and beyond. Let's kick it up again. Let's
 tell you, let's take productivity up because you're now making more money. But it's not just on
 productivity, it's also on expenses. So hey, manufacturing, your loss last month was at 8%. We have 8% loss.
 I don't know what you guys have as a percentage of loss. What's an average month? Do you guys know?
 It's going to be about 5% in the manufacturing. So hey, guys, 5% loss. Last month, we had a 7% loss.
 Guys, here's what I need you to understand. That just hurt your profit sharing because that extra 2%
 that just killed you. So now our profits are down. So you're not getting that because we had a higher
 loss. If you get to a month where losses 3% guys, wait a go. Look at this. Hey, shipping,
 accounting. Manufacturing's losses down. They've saved us in expense. The loss is down 3% to 3%
 guys, that's going in to your profit sharing. Way to go celebrate the daylights out of it.
 You know, when shipping does a great job. When they're when their cut and expenses, one account
 to guess finding things and you know, when all of these things are happening and it's affecting
 the bottom lines, celebrate the daylights out of it so that they can see, okay, we are truly impacting
 our own destiny here. We can make more money if we want to make money. Does all that make sense?
 It does. I have one more question for you. Do you recommend splitting up the profit sharing check monthly
 or quarterly? And if one above the other, why? So here's how I always base it. How much is the
 profit sharing check going to be on their check monthly? If it's $57, don't do it. That's just because
 then tax is cut into it and it's like, okay, I could go buy a sandwich. Thanks. That was great
 profit sharing. If it's so low that you're like after taxes, this isn't, they're not even going to
 feel this thing, move it to quarterly. If, and for other people that are listening, if it's not even
 good there, maybe go twice a year or go every four months, maybe three times a year or something like that.
 So for me, I want to see, I want to get it down to monthly. As fast as I possibly can, I want to
 get it into monthly because now they feel it every single month. No less than monthly. There's no
 two weeks or anything else. It's on a monthly basis. And for me, I close out the previous month and then I
 will pay it out on the 15th so that they get it on the next check, right? Or I'll probably pay it out
 on the end of the month because if I'm paying commissions out on the 15th, then I'll probably pay it out
 in the end of the month. So for me, I want to make sure that when they see that profit sharing
 number on their check, it feels great. It's incentivizing. If they look at it and after taxes,
 it's $32 that that's not exciting. I don't really want to, I don't really care about trying to keep
 lost down if I get $32 whole dollars. Now, if I look at it and it's in the hundreds, oh,
 well that's nice. That feels good. Let me do again. Let me work harder. Hey guys, the more we do,
 we're getting the more this number is going to keep climbing and celebrate and celebrate and
 celebrate. They more they see. And then when they don't do good, not kick it down.
 You know, make sure, well, you don't have a choice. If you're working off of the same percentage,
 it will drop it down because net profit obviously drop down, but call it out. Guys, we didn't have
 as much profit last month and here's why. We had too much loss here. We had too much, you know,
 we shipped to the wrong country here. Whatever that is, we didn't look at our expenses, that hurt us.
 So let's make sure we're watching those things that's going to benefit your profit sharing.
 Makes sense? It does. Thank you. Absolutely. What are the questions?
 I think that's got it. That's given me a lot to work on and think about and definitely implement some
 new things. Good. Excellent. Excellent. Well, obviously you're in the group. So if you have any more
 questions, make sure you hit us back up on that. We'd love to have that. But thank you so much for
 coming on the show and asking the question. And well, we get to see you at the next retreat.
 Yeah, we're absolutely going to be there. We're going to get to, there's two of us from our company
 that are members. So you'll see it tell a little four of us, I believe. Fantastic. Well, we're
 looking forward to it. We'll see you guys in a couple of weeks then. Thanks, Chris. We're looking forward
 to it. Absolutely. So folks, there you go. A lot of information. There's so many things I left out.
 Some point I need to make a much bigger lesson on this. Another thing is folks in leadership never
 share the percentage don't tell the team doesn't get to learn this because there may be things that
 you make adjustments on in the future. So if all of a sudden you made a bad profit sharing plan
 and your calculations are now hurting you, you may have to make some adjustments. So also if you tell
 percentage numbers, then take long for somebody to back into your numbers what your net profit is.
 And unfortunately, what that will do is that will create somebody who doesn't know how to digest
 the numbers about business because they don't understand IP and L, they will make a ton of assumptions
 that can hurt you. So just don't do that. Make sure that you know what you're doing. Make a decision
 on the percentage pay it out, but that doesn't get shared with team members. So always be celebrating.
 When you're winning, celebrate, celebrate, celebrate, celebrate. If you're celebrating, if you're
 winning, then celebrate guys because you did great, we have more profit sharing. If profit sharing
 is down, make sure that they know why. If possible without you know, pointing a person,
 have one person screwed it up. You don't want to be pointing at that one person, but say, hey,
 profit sharing is down because we had more expense this month, you know, and so guys do a better job
 next month than your profit sharing will go back up. So folks, I hope this answers your questions
 on profit sharing send us your questions. We love having you ask questions on stuff like this.
 It can be about business, leadership, life. We've had people ask about care, raise,
 key results, areas, how to manage their time as a leader. When to launch their side business,
 how to turn around negative cultures, all of those questions, boundaries, hiring, firing,
 overwhelming, accounting, any of that kind of stuff, it doesn't matter what it is. If it's business,
 if it's leadership, if it's life, feel free email us at podcast@crystallicardo.com,
 and we will try and get your question on a future episode. We check that inbox every day.
 So they'll be shy, feel free to send something in. Well, as always, take this information,
 change your leadership, change your business, change your life. By the way, you know somebody
 else who needs to hear this episode, tell them about it today, and join us on the next episode.
.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]