 The eight negative people you should avoid that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 Today we are talking about the other four negative people you should avoid.
 Now we talked about the first four on last week's episode.
 Just a ton of great information in there.
 So we are continuing with that today. Again, just a recap of, if you're now listening,
 if you've not listened to that first episode, go listen to it. Just pause this and go jump on that
 and run through that first before you go through this one. Trust me, it will help you
 it'll be incredibly beneficial because there's so much information that you will gain from that.
 But today we're jumping in with the rest of the eight people that you should avoid.
 So kicking that off with the impossible to place. Now some people refuse to give a kind word to
 anything you do. If you have something that you are proud of, they will find 700 reasons why it's not
 good enough in turn. You hear every time that it is you who are not good enough. Now I want to make
 sure that we understand that there's two different types here. One, the impossible to please is the person who
 is, it just doesn't matter what you have that's good. It's something that they start to lose worth
 in and so they start to attack your thing. It's not good enough. Here's all these different reasons.
 That is considerably different than the person who is healthy or but thinking logistically.
 Sometimes sometimes you can do something. Again, even that person is going to have kind of words from
 time of time. But there are sometimes you may come to somebody if they're a super high sea,
 they may be in high sea mode. If you're a high eye, hey look at this thing I did. Many times a high
 eye child will turn to a high sea parent and say look at what I did and they will go, now let me ask
 you about this and they will start picking it apart. The high sea parent needs to learn not to do that.
 But that doesn't mean that they're impossible to please. It means that they're most likely
 in a task mode and you're a high eye, you just built this little bridge out in the driveway and
 chances are there's some pieces missing. It looks beautiful and it was fun but this thing may crash
 on the cat. That person might actually be picking things apart just knowing let's make sure that you
 got all the bolts in place. That's different than the person that it doesn't matter how great it
 is. Whatever you do, they're just never pleased. They're impossible. You can do a hundred different things,
 different ways have tons of, you know, out of boys from people around you that think that what you've
 done is incredible and this person's just going to think, "Hey, why do you think that you're so great?"
 But he's on a journey cuff. He calls it the hate or rule. You can get a thousand out of boys
 online and get one-o-darn and how do you respond. The "o-darn destroys your day." Because we look at
 that person that impossible to please person and we think, "Oh gosh, I've done something wrong. Maybe
 I'm not good enough." Maybe, you know, if that's you, if you're going to that place immediately,
 that's because you have some impossible to please people in your life. Now, when you get healthy
 or you actually get your work from the right place and you learn what tools and all that kind of fun stuff,
 that stuff that just rolls off your back. But until then, again, like we say, we need to put in some
 healthy boundaries. I'll never forget the time. It was probably, I can't remember, probably about
 two thousand, two thousand, seven, two thousand, eight, something like that. I was not on social
 media long and I get this tweet that says something like, I remember what it said. It was something like
 Chris Lecardos and Moron. It's not like that. Now, it was just, I was so frustrated. I was like,
 how dare you say that? What does that have to, you don't, you're not pointing to anything, you're not
 referencing anything. What did I do? Tell me what I did. You know, helped me to see and I was just so
 frustrated that somebody would just put something out there that was so inconsiderate and unloved
 in to say something like, I would never put something like that out there. I started typing seven different
 responses and each time I might know that's not, my highest is creeping up going, that's not,
 that's not very nice. Don't put that out there. Just stop. I couldn't come up with a response
 that I felt love-ing about. Still, I needed to say something because I didn't realize back in
 those days, I didn't need to say something. As I'm sitting there, I felt like the Holy Spirit says,
 you know, he probably just doesn't have that many followers. I was like, you're right, he probably
 doesn't. You should probably look at his Twitter page to see. I was like, I will do that. And so
 I clicked that over to his Twitter page and all of a sudden, my heart broke. He had all these pictures
 of his baby. Never can tell the story. He had all these pictures of his baby and the ICU with
 all these tubes coming out of it. And it was as if God was saying, do you see why he's responding this
 way? He's hurting. And it just broke my heart. And any desire to defend myself was gone. It was like,
 here's somebody who's struggling with something. What am I struggling with? I'm struggling with
 somebody who attacked me for what appears to be no reason online. And I've got, I'm not experiencing
 anything like his experiencing right now in this moment. And so instead of trying to defend myself,
 I just sent a reply to his tweet. And I just said, I'm praying for your baby. And about 30 minutes
 later, he was, oh, about 30 minutes later, he responded back. Thank you. I believe it's working. Oh gosh.
 Okay. That story's out. Okay. So understand that sometimes people are difficult to please because
 of what they're experiencing in their life right now. Sometimes it's just something that they're
 struggling with. Sometimes they're experiencing pain beyond anything you can understand in the moment.
 And sometimes they're just trying so hard not to lose worth or trying to gain worth. Put your distance
 in between those that are trying to just get worth from you and go and surround yourself or put
 yourself in the place where you can help those that are hurting. Because even if they fire on you,
 come on, you're tough enough. You're strong enough. You can handle that, right? You can take it
 if somebody's hurting that they say something stupid. They say something painful, right? So those aren't the
 people you want to put some distance in, but those the haters are. Next person, the manipulator.
 This is the, I really need you to help me with type of person. And again, this is a lot like the
 take-er. This is somebody who will manipulate you and situations. The, I really need you to help me with this
 is a common sentence used by the manipulator. They do a great job discovering who around them can
 get things done for them. If you push back, then they will push harder to make you feel guilty.
 The manipulation process, the manipulator usually is not manipulating stronger personality styles,
 like other deeds. If they do, they do it with competition. They do it with challenges. They do it
 with, oh, apparently you're not good enough type of stuff. They usually will pick on the high eyes,
 the high S's, and they will go in and they will manipulate, especially the S's with the comment
 of, I need you to help me with this. Because now you're being needed, if you're a high altruist,
 somebody says that they need you and you want to jump on this situation, you'll put other things aside
 to go help this person. Well, this is a person who tends to see that if they can manipulate you
 into doing things for them, they will continue to do so under the guise of it being a need or urgency.
 And then if you ever push back, they start to push more on you and help you to feel guilty.
 Right? They can't make you feel guilty. They can suggest that you feel guilty.
 Now the person you want to put some distance between you and the manipulator. If somebody is trying
 to manipulate you in any situation, does matter what it is. Right? Then that's not somebody who's
 caring about you, that somebody's caring about themselves. And choosing to try and hurt you in
 a situation so that they gain from it. Put some distance between you and the manipulator and focus on being
 healthy and put healthy boundaries in place in the future. So again, it's not like the person who's
 needing your help because they are struggling with something that is legit. This is somebody who's
 coming on and going, oh, I can manipulate this person into getting this done quicker and easier,
 and I don't have to do it, I can go and do something else. Put some distance or some healthy
 boundaries in place with that person. Okay, we will be back discussing the last two of the eight
 negative people you should avoid when we come back right out to this. Folks, if you've been listening
 to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue when it comes to business, when it
 comes to family, when it comes to friendships is having a lack of high quality communication to make
 sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life, it all starts with having
 great communication. The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to
 understand the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with, whether it be
 at work, whether it be at home. The best way to do that is to go to crissacrittle.com/store and get
 your personality profile and personality profiles for your team two day. Get it for your family members,
 today. As you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate. Go to
 crissacrittle.com/store2day. Welcome back. And we were talking about the eight negative people you
 should avoid, or at least put some distance in and again as we said at the top of the show,
 make sure that you're putting healthy boundaries in place until you get healthy,
 or that you can handle these situations. Number seven would be the judge. It is vitally important to the
 judge to look good. So much so that they will do what they can to make you look less than or insignificant
 compared to them. No matter what you've done, they've done it better. This is the kind of person
 who is always going to try and make them look better than you, no matter what the situation is.
 This isn't, and I'm not talking about, you know, friendly banter between, oh, you know, we had this
 great vacation where we went, scott having, oh, we did the same thing. It was, this is somebody who
 every single time, the thing you did is really insignificant to what they've done. They've done it better.
 They've done it more. They were better at it. They judge you on any of your accomplishments.
 And if your accolades, any of the things that you're doing in life, they will judge it
 and compare it to what they've done and how much better they've done it. Once again, another person
 will want to put some serious distance between us and them with until we can get some healthy boundaries.
 How would I respond to the judge as a healthy herb person with much healthier boundaries? I just don't
 have the conversation, right? There are some people in my life. People that come to me and it doesn't matter
 what, they will even come to me to try and gain significance by proving to me something amazing about
 themselves or something that they've done and even ask for input. And if I give coaching input,
 then my input's always wrong. It's never the right input. It's never good enough. It's never, it's always,
 you know, what they're doing is the right thing. And why are you, why did you even come and ask me a
 question then? Why did you seek my help? If no matter what I tell you, it's always going to be wrong
 and insignificant. Well, no, no, that's not right because of this, this, this, oh, for love, okay?
 And so when I see these people coming and it's not often, it's very few people. And only,
 you know, get to see them once in a great while. But when I do see that person coming,
 I tend to not give any information whatsoever. Even if they ask for input, I will choose not to
 give input out, you know, so and so you might want to speak to so and so. What's the struggle? They're
 wanting so badly to gain worth by being right, by being better, by trying to make me look in
 significant. I don't need to get somebody to feel good about the information I'm giving. I'm giving
 so I can help that type of person. Just don't have the conversation. Don't share things that you've
 done. Don't, don't go to them with things that if you want to share something with somebody. Now, if you're
 going because you're trying to get worth yourself, you're wasting your time anyways, because you,
 you can't get worth from another human beings opinion of you. You can definitely lose it. Right?
 You can, you can get worth if you tell yourself that they think you're amazing, therefore, you're
 much more worthy. But there's a God who already tells you how worthy you are. So it's always the time.
 You can definitely lose worth by this type of person who constantly makes you look insignificant.
 Last person, the eighth person, the eighth negative person that you should avoid is the self-credit.
 This is probably the worst negative person of all. This is the person inside of you who believes
 the lies that you are told and has a tendency to tell quite a few lies to you as well. This negative
 person must be avoided at all costs. This one is definitely you, the self-credit. The one who always tells
 you and a lot of the lies may have come from the previous seven people. If you had any of the seven
 negative, the characteristics that we talked about, if any of those people or parents or influencers
 in your life, then there's a good chance that they convinced you are highly suggested and may
 still do so, that you believe lies about you. But the self-credit is the one who believes the lies.
 And the self-credit is the one who tells themselves the lies. You must avoid this as much as you possibly
 can. Now it's very, very difficult to do. You need to understand a bunch of stuff. You need to understand
 why you believe the lies. You need to understand why again, what we call surface level responses,
 every person who comes to the next level life has a long list of them that they didn't even realize.
 They realized some of them exist, but for the most part they don't see most of them. They have
 root systems that we discover what, why, how, when, how did all this stuff come about, why is it
 I'm making decisions based on, what am I making decisions based on? And when they see that they go,
 oh, gosh, I never even realized that. But in the meantime, not knowing all the stuff that you
 learning the next level of life, they have a tendency to tell themselves the lies. We have a whole process
 that we go through of discovering what the lies are. And those lies are those things that either people
 have told you and you believe currently still, or you tell yourself and you believe currently.
 I'm not good enough. I'll never be smart enough. I'll never be attractive enough. I'll never be good enough
 to be at a higher level in my business. I'll never, I'll always have to prove myself to so-and-so.
 I'll never be good enough for a great relationship. I'll never be worthy to this person, this family
 member, all the people in my family, my friends, all those lies that you tell yourself,
 I'll never make enough money. I'll never be good enough to make money. All of those lies that you tell
 yourself, those are absolutely self-destructive. Those are absolutely self-sabotaging. The self-critic
 is the most damaging person to you, of all, because it is you. The things that are suggested by the
 previous seven negative people no matter how heavily they suggest it. You don't have to receive any of it.
 You don't have to receive any bit of it. Now, one thing I always tell people are,
 are try to help people to see when they become a victim of, "Oh, I'm just not going to receive them."
 Well, is that truth? There may be times that you have to realize that you're doing something wrong.
 If you're being a total jerk to somebody else and somebody says, "Hey, you're being a total jerk
 to that person." Ask yourself the question, "Am I?" If you are, then guess what, suck it up,
 buttercup. You've got to take responsibility for you being a jerk, and you've got to solve you.
 You can't blame that on somebody else. But if somebody is coming along in the way that we describe the
 previous seven, doing it too hurt you, too affect you, too trying gain worth themselves or trying
 not lose worth, then these are people you need to put some distance between. The top part is putting
 this between you and the self-critic. You've got to kick that guy out of the curb. You've got to
 kick that guy out of the curb, right? The only way you can do that is to discover the truths. As we talk
 about through next-level life, the truths are rarely ever the opposite of the lie. The lie is based on
 things that are directly correlated to your root system that we have to discover. Once we do,
 then seeing the truths is much easier. Here's what I want you to understand. When Jesus was tempted
 by Satan in the desert, for those of you that know this story, and if you don't know it, he had fasted
 for 40 days. He was the weakest physically he had ever been. He was tempted by Satan in the desert.
 He never battled Satan. Now this is somebody who could call down all of heaven and destroy Satan
 in a heartbeat. But then that would absolutely take away the purpose of why he was on this planet.
 He never battled Satan. All he did was battled the lies with truths. Having those truths in place
 will help you. The truth is until you discover those truths, until you discover why you're lying
 to yourself or what the lies are or what the surface level responses are, it's going to be very
 difficult for you to get away from negative people like this, especially those of you that are
 staying around negative people like this to affirm how bad you really are and that you're not worthy
 and that you're not good enough. Folks, it's just a lie. It is just a lie. So do something
 that gets you away from all of that negativity. Now understand this. All people,
 in the next level of life, all people. There is nobody on this planet. I have had folks that have
 come through that have had the most amazing childhoods. No problems whatsoever. And they had powerful events.
 Everybody needs to have the next level of life. Everyone on the list above, most likely doesn't
 understand why they do what they do. Even if they have an idea, they don't know how to deal with it.
 So if you're one of the, any of the eight and trust me, you absolutely can't but we all are. We all
 have aspects of all of this until we get healthy. Right? So if you're one of the eight, then guess what?
 You don't know why you're doing what you're doing. If you haven't listened to the episode
 understanding your root system, it will help to explain it more. We'll put a link in the show notes.
 So you can listen to that. Or if you're listening on iTunes, just click my head because I believe
 all the links are right there. Listen, if you're one of the eight, get your butt in here,
 get in here for a next level of life. If you're somebody being affected by any of the eight,
 get your butt in here because you need a next level of life. It's just that important. It will
 change the way you see life period. It will give you tools to help you to get through life
 way better than you've ever experienced. Now I'm not asking you to kick people out of your life.
 I'm asking you to set healthy boundaries and remove the authority that negative people have in your
 life. Do not let them set your reality. Do not let them tell you how horrible you are. Come discover the
 truth about yourself. Spend time in God's word. Spend time seeking him. Seek the truth about how
 worthy you are. Now I'm not saying that you're a perfect person because none of us are. What I am
 saying is is that you are worthy in God's eyes. What I mean by that is is that you are worthy for him
 to come and do the very thing you need to spend eternity with him. That's the important piece. So
 notice the behavior of the people around you and see how you're being influenced by these eight types.
 Look for these qualities in yourself. If you want to learn how to get to a better place,
 then go to christlucrital.com/nextlevellife and click "Take the next step." There are steps you can take to get
 healthy to have freedom, to have joy, to have peace, to have healthy relationships and something that's
 incredibly important is to learn how to be your authentic self. So folks hopefully this is helped
 you today as always. Take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life
 and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]