 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCordo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the show folks. Today we have a special guest, Andrea Ling and Felter.
 I just love saying her name. She's a wife. She's a mom to two adorable kids and she is a leader.
 And we've gotten to spend some time with Andrea at the office. When she was here for both her next level life and came through as part of the leadership team for a company strat plan event.
 So if you will do me a big favor and welcome to the show, Andrea, Andrea, welcome.
 Thanks Chris. Glad to be on today.
 Well, it's so good to have you on. I got the chance to see a lot of you over the last month.
 What has your last month of being here been like?
 Oh my, it's been a little hectic, but you know what? Every minute that I spent there with you guys was well worth it, especially the food.
 [LAUGH]
 It tends to be the thing that people love. We do a lot of great food.
 What was your favorite? Because you did both next level of life and strat plan.
 So you've had a ton of different food. What was your favorite thing?
 The bison rib eyes by far. That's always the winner.
 And you got to have that twice. So that's cool.
 Well, we're so glad to have you on the show because you've gotten to experience two different sides of the things that we do.
 The three major things that we do next level life, which is on the personal side.
 You come through and experience that.
 Strat plan, which is for the leadership team of a company where I always say, we rip the business apart, but I don't think that ever sounds really good.
 It's literally going through and discovering all the things holding you back.
 And then we also do the leadership side, which is next level mastermind all that.
 You got to come through on both the next level of life and the strat plan.
 So coming through on a personal event and a business event, what was great?
 What was different about it? How old did it line up for you?
 I was very grateful to go through next level of life first.
 It taught me a lot about myself.
 I mean, it was things I already knew, but it brought them out into the front and it gave me a chance to work on those things within myself before I was able to come in with the team and really dive into strat plan.
 Plus it also really prepared me for kind of how you ask questions during strat plan.
 It was pretty great actually getting to be involved from both sides of it, both personally and on the business side because it helped me grow not only as a person, but as a leader.
 All right. I remember at one point because strat plan is not easy.
 No, not at all. Neither of the events are easy. They're tough events, but if you're going to grow in life, the tough events are what get you there.
 But I remember at one point where you said, you know, I'm working through the tools from my next level of life right now.
 And I don't even remember what specifically the subject was, but I remember there was a point where because you had gone through next level of life and in strat plan,
 you were actually literally going through here's how I would normally react to this, but here's how I'm acting now.
 And it was a powerful moment for you, at least I feel like it was a powerful moment for you was for me.
 Yes, it was very much.
 By the way, you also had another great thing come out of your next level of life. Do you want to share that?
 Very exciting.
 Yes, I brought my husband along because I felt like, you know, him and I are a partnership and we're in this along with God.
 And he became saved during the first day of next level, next level of life. So that was very powerful because it strengthened our relationship and it helped him to grow in his relationship with God as well.
 Such a powerful day, such an exciting day was so great to see that happen and to experience that. So we're so glad that we were able to be a part of that process too.
 So praise God for that. And not everybody brings their spouse, but praise God that you did. If you were to look back a year ago, if you were to ask yourself,
 if my life were at a hundred percent, if I could wave a magic wand and see the best version of what my life would be like, what would your answer have been?
 If I asked myself that a year ago, I probably would have come up with the answer that I wanted to be a perfect mom, that I wanted to be a perfect leader, that I wanted to have.
 My whole life just completely together and looking awesome.
 You know, that's probably the answer I would have given, but that's definitely not what I would say anymore.
 What would you say now?
 I would say that I would hope to be the best that I can in all of those areas, but that I also acknowledge that I can't be perfect because I'm not designed to be perfect.
 But I can work towards being the best I can possibly be with God at my side.
 It's amazing the amount of stresses that we put on ourselves and this idea, it's so funny. We ask that question a thousand times to people.
 If you could wave a magic wand and our goal is not for people to go, oh, what could the perfect life be like?
 It's to imagine what it would be like and then to realize, oh, you know, you come through something like a next level of life and you see, that's not even not only is that,
 probably not 100% possible, but I'm not sure that's exactly what I want.
 Because so much of that is focused on what other people would see in me as opposed to what God sees in me or what I want for me.
 Is that sound about correct?
 Yes, that's absolutely right.
 So looking at life now, it's not about being a perfect person.
 No, not at all.
 What is it about?
 It's about putting God first, you know, and just really walking with him and serving him and serving others at the same time.
 Mm, powerful stuff. Now you're a mom, you're a wife, and you're a leader.
 So thinking about your life as a whole, go back in time.
 What were your biggest frustrations a year ago, six months ago before next level of life?
 I struggled and juggled and I had a lot of issues with setting priorities and constantly feeling like a failure because I was trying to do things all on my own.
 I was not looking towards God and just really trying to do the walk of life on my own and it was not succeeding.
 And I was just constantly beating myself up for it.
 Yeah, where were you looking for your worth?
 And everybody else around me.
 What were you telling yourself during that process is like that where you're seeking worth from man?
 What are you telling yourself?
 I was telling myself that, you know, if people weren't liking me or they weren't liking what I was doing that.
 I was not being successful and there was no way I could be successful.
 And I felt like I was in a never-ending circle.
 And you were talking about and I think this is the way that so many people are.
 Is you made the mention of beating yourself up? What was that like?
 I constantly believed all the lies. I would tell myself and I couldn't seek clearly enough that they were lies.
 I started telling them to myself so often that I believe them.
 I believed all the horrible things I thought about myself and about all the horrible things I thought I was dealing with.
 When in reality, that's not the truth at all.
 I constantly told myself that I was never good enough and that I needed to be in full control and show control over my life.
 Over my emotions at all times.
 And I saw myself as a failure and that I needed to be perfect.
 So my lies constantly contradicted themselves.
 And you have really become an expert at showing control, haven't you?
 Yes.
 And how is that impact to you as a person?
 I felt like I couldn't be really true to myself because I was constantly hiding behind this mask.
 Not being your authentic you.
 Yes, exactly.
 Did you discover that during your event?
 Oh yes.
 What did you think when you saw your authentic self?
 It opened my eyes because I knew it was there all along.
 I was just too busy focusing on the lives that I couldn't see through them for what they were.
 Yeah.
 The big focus is on man, on what man thinks of you, what man how man sees you.
 You have to be in control because you don't want man to see that you're out of control.
 You have to focus on control because you can't be vulnerable enough to be out of control.
 Was any of that holding you back in your marriage and your mothering or being a leader?
 Oh, absolutely.
 I was trying to maintain control on my own when I started going through next civil life and realizing that I was not putting God where I needed to.
 In other words, I wasn't putting him first and foremost.
 And I was not operating through him.
 It just really opened my eyes.
 And so since then, I've been working on putting him first and just really thinking things through first.
 I'll pray about it and I'll bring him in and just really gain perspective on the situation before I move forward.
 Yeah.
 So there's a ton of people that identify with what you're saying because we all experience in life to some extent the step that you've gone through that fear of failure, that fear of man's opinion, that fear of judgment, the fear of being out of control.
 The need to be in control of life. People don't realize that control is an illusion because we're really not controlling the things we think we are.
 But it's not just controlling people. Your focus wasn't on controlling people as much as controlling you.
 You keeping you in control so that people's opinions didn't beat you up.
 That's right. Yeah. It was more about controlling me and how I portrayed myself.
 So that I wouldn't get hurt.
 Yeah.
 Is the thought that if you were being the real Andrea, people would not like that person, people would take advantage of that person, people would hurt that person.
 That's what I used to think.
 Yeah.
 And you probably experienced that.
 Yep.
 But we tie it to you.
 I was because it's Andrea being Andrea.
 So if I just take control of myself and I push this aside, then I don't have to worry about getting hurt.
 Right.
 What is your view on that now?
 Um, completely different.
 I don't need to be in control because AI can't be in control.
 And be because if I open myself up to more people and if I have got it, my side, it's amazing the difference.
 I have no fear that people are going to look at me badly for how I think or how I act.
 I'm not worried about that at all because what they think doesn't really matter in the long run.
 It's how God thinks.
 Yeah.
 And if I'm working through him, then I have nothing to worry about.
 Exactly.
 It changes your perspective on who you worry about.
 Yeah.
 And it's unions you worry about, right?
 You beat it.
 So this is the crazy cycle.
 I'm worried about what man thinks of me.
 So I'm going to take control of how I am instead of being my authentic self instead of being the true angrier that God made me to be.
 And this is something a lot of people don't know.
 There's no word in the Hebrew for hero because we're not supposed to be like anybody else except for Jesus.
 You're supposed to be, you know, we're not supposed to be like Mike, you know, saying in the 90s.
 We're supposed to be the best version of who God made us.
 You're supposed to be the best angria that God made, but we get in this place of allowing people to hurt us.
 We're not victims in this.
 We allow it.
 Not saying that people don't come along in our total jerks, but if we're working with God, it changes the way we receive that stuff.
 The fear of failing the fear of judgment, the fear of people condemning you, thinking badly of you,
 causes you to take control and present a different person who's not authentically you and always worrying about having to be in control to control the thoughts of other people so that you don't get hurt.
 That's terribly exhausting, isn't it?
 Absolutely.
 And when you hear it, looking back on what you think.
 I want to know what I was thinking.
 Right.
 Yeah, it was a crazy cycle.
 And it was exhausting.
 And just being able to work towards letting that go has just been so freeing.
 I love it.
 So what was your aha moment?
 What was something that allowed you to go from struggle and frustration to clarity?
 It was actually watching my husband as he battled his way towards becoming saved.
 Just constantly asking the questions until there were no more questions to be asked.
 And all that was left was just to believe.
 Yeah.
 And just watching that struggle and knowing how much I struggle in myself, but also knowing that I already have got in my life.
 I'm already saved.
 It made me think, okay, why am I battling so much if I've already got this belief?
 I need to just let go of the fears.
 I need to let go of the lives.
 I need to quit trying to battle the demons on my own.
 And I need to bring God back in my life and make him first.
 And as my husband was going through this and getting to the point where he was saved, it was just a big relief within myself as well.
 And it just kind of flipped the switch and from then on everything else just fit in the place.
 There's only one true place to get worth.
 We always look for man to get our worth from.
 We're always looking to do something that makes man think that we're great, where we're looking to say something that makes men think that we're worth something.
 We are clay pots.
 We are made by the same.
 We are the created made by the same creator.
 And so instead of looking to him for worth, the guy who actually made us who loves us immensely more than we can possibly imagine.
 And so many people have taken a look at their parents or taken a look at bad religion and staple that to God, which is not what you should be doing because it's not the same.
 But we look to man for worth.
 So often I mean once we get it, it lasts for about five minutes and then we gotta go do something again to be worthy again.
 It's interesting that you're going through a process discovering how you sought worth from men.
 The things that you were doing, the decisions that you were making and pointing towards the one thing you were learning in the process, which is how to get your worth from God, which is 24/7, 365.
 For your husband to be sitting in and I'm assuming Mike in his mind was going, "Huh, well where would I get my worth?"
 Because it's a difficult place, right? If you don't believe in God, if you don't believe that this life isn't the life that the next one is, if you don't believe that he's crazy about you, where's your focus come from?
 So what is that like as a spouse for you going through learning these things about yourself knowing, "Okay, I'm hearing this, I'm seeing that this can come from God, looking at your husband was their concerns, was there worries, was there aha moments, what one through your mind?"
 I knew it was something he struggled with because he doesn't have a very good background as a childhood.
 So I never really understood where he got his worth from, I think he tried to get it for himself and it never worked because he never saw himself as worthy of anything ever.
 So to me, I was just hoping that he'd be there and maybe some of this would help him in his journey, but I never expected what actually came out of it.
 So it was just amazing to be able to watch him let that go and for the first time really believe that he was worth something to God, which is bigger than trying to be worth something anyone else out there.
 Most people, it's this bad image of God, it's this, I don't want that lifestyle, I don't, I've got an abusive parent and if that's what God is like, I don't want that type of person in my life.
 And so seeking worth so becomes about what can I get from man, something that is created just like I am, something that has the same potential as I do is going to die someday that's going to be it, how can I get my worth from that person.
 And I think that's what God is like, he's now opened up to seeing and again he didn't do next level of life yet, he sat in on yours.
 How is it for him now somebody who thought he wasn't worth squat to not only have this belief in God, this belief in joy in the next life, but how is he looking at his worth now knowing that God loves him.
 Amazing, really, before he would have episodes where he would really beat himself up over some of the smallest trivial things, and it would just be a full blown explosion.
 But ever since he's gone through the next level of life now if something goes wrong, I can watch him step back and he'll go into prayer and he'll come out on the other side of that more peaceful.
 It's not a constant thing and he's only been a month and he's still battling pretty hard. I know and he knows it's going to be an uphill battle with some of the demons that he's working with, but he has just turned quite a corner.
 He has gotten his life now and it's a whole lot more evident because he seems to be more at peace now.
 I love that it's so powerful. I love knowing that this father of two that this husband is now stepping back and going into prayer to solve things in his life that is so.
 That is fantastic. Let's talk about empowering things. What would you say was the most empowering thing that you learned?
 I think the biggest thing is that the only way to block out the lies and the fears that I allow to control my life is to pray for the strengths to focus on the truth and for God to keep me completely 100% on those truths.
 I can't do that by myself. There's no way I can battle that on my own.
 For those of you that are listening that have not been through the next level of life, the truth is almost never the opposite of the lie.
 The lie that we're telling ourselves has to do with something else. We tell ourselves this surface level of life. I'll never be appreciated by people.
 I can't trust anyone. We think that that's the actual lie and the reason we're telling ourselves that is a totally different reason.
 We focus on what are the actual truths. You can battle with it. The first thing you do is you've got to go to the Holy Spirit who has the power to help you through this battle.
 Then start shouting the truths at the lies. When you focus the truths, the real truths, the actual truths, all of a sudden you're able to battle through that lie, which is something you experienced in Stratplank, correct?
 Yes, I did.
 What was that like in that moment? What was different about that compared to anything in the past?
 The only way I can explain it is that it was just freeing. It was like this weight lifted off my shoulders to know that I'm not alone. I'm not supposed to be alone.
 I've got someone that is there for me to lean on to help steer me away from the life. Powerful. I love it. I love it. It made it different for your responses inside of a very important business event.
 Because you've got to be the authentic Andrea in the moment and not give answers that you wanted people to appreciate you for or like you for or think good of you. You've got to put answers out that you felt like we're good honest.
 No matter what if it's painful and not answers.
 Exactly. It allowed me to be more open. If I had ideas, I felt more free to share them that I would have in the past.
 What would you say is the greatest change you know in your relationships?
 I've been working with God's help. My relationship is working on my husband right now. He's more present in my life than ever before. He's definitely more of a focal point in our marriage than ever before.
 It's so powerful. How does not seeking worth or control or at least as much? We don't ever get perfect on this and it's a lifelong process.
 But how does not seeking worth or control from people affect your marriage?
 The marriage is a little different. It affects me more than my husband and myself because he was very much in control simply because of what he was going through.
 But I also was stuck where I felt like I had to find worth from myself in my marriage because I wasn't getting it from my husband, which is not a pretty there.
 But now that I have my worth from God, I feel like I'm just more open in the relationship I'm not withdrawn and I'm not trying to find worth from someone else who is just as damaged as I am.
 So are you saying if I hear this correctly? Oh, folks, I hope you get this. You're more open. You're not as withdrawn. Does that mean that your relationship your marriage is getting better?
 You're loving him better, loving you better?
 Yes, it's definitely gotten a lot stronger and we thought it was great to begin with but well, to see change in the past month, even better.
 What is that like for your parenting? What is that like for your kids that your oldest one is three four?
 Four.
 So really, I mean, they're not noticing a ton, but they're probably noticing something. What does that like for your parenting?
 Well, she definitely notices that we're more unified.
 We also had a tough lesson on choices in consequences.
 And so she's definitely starting to learn that she keeps making bad choices that there will be consequences.
 And we're no longer allowing our own world and our own world to control us.
 We are, it's quite, I say it again. It's freeing. We don't feel like we're going to lose it if she doesn't listen to us.
 We can remain calm. We give her the choices. And if she doesn't make the right ones, then that's how she's going to learn.
 Doesn't it feel great not to feel like you have to be the bad person?
 Yes.
 That's what we do, right?
 Right.
 Because we're not really being bad people. We're teaching them. And that's how they grow.
 And I want our daughters to be able to grow with God.
 And I want them to be able to see that as evident in our family.
 Yeah.
 It's so interesting. I was at an event. I went back home.
 There's this event called Trucky Thursdays back in Tahoe where I live where they shut down the whole
 Main Street of my little town and all these vendors come out and all this stuff going on.
 And I was there.
 And we have become a society where parents feel like to correct, to give consequences that they have to be the bad person.
 That they have to get mad at the child for not doing some listen folks.
 You're teaching your training your children how to take advantage of you because you allow it because you feel like you have to be the friend or the the great parent.
 And all that and none of that has to be.
 You also don't have to be the total jerk.
 If you give choices and consequences, which we teach a bunch of that in next level of life.
 And we also teach it in strap.
 And as well.
 Then what happens is you allow them to create a decision making process.
 But I'm at this events and there's this whole. They've got all these food trips and stuff and these two parents.
 I so wanted to speak in and say, hey, can I help you with this? And of course you can't.
 I mean, it's just not nobody wants that stuff while you're at a vent downtown.
 But these there are two boys were fighting over a little scooter.
 And as the dads trying to tell them to give it up, you can tell that there's no consequences that comes with these actions.
 And so instead they're not listening to dad.
 And interestingly, as dads trying to tell them and they're not responding because there are no consequences that come with their actions.
 Mom starts going, you want some water? You want some water?
 Do you want some water?
 Water? Do you want, hey guys, do you want water? Guys, guys, how about some water?
 And it's this attempt to distract with water.
 And that was the parenting skills that they had.
 Those two boys are going to grow up.
 And they are going to look to everybody to take care of them.
 They're going to be entitled.
 They're going to look to their professors to their the people that they date to their leaders, their bosses.
 For everybody to take care of them and let them get their way.
 And it is going to be a problem.
 It's going to be disasters for them because they're going to realize that life isn't this way.
 Your parents may have let you get away with a lot of stuff.
 A lot of other people aren't going to.
 And it's going to create problems.
 Now that you're implementing stuff.
 And again, this is how we're trained to be parents, right?
 We don't give the choices and consequences.
 Now that you're putting this in place, what do you see for your kids' futures?
 I just see that they're going to be able to have much fuller healthier futures simply because they're going to know boundaries.
 They're going to know limits.
 And while we teach them that it's okay to dream and it's okay to dream big, they're also going to know that they can't do it on their own.
 They're going to know that God is there with them.
 And that as long as they keep him first, you know, they're going to have the futures that God has laid out for them.
 I love it.
 You come through this event struggling with having to be in control of you, struggling with fear of failure,
 struggling with how people see you, not being your authentic self, not even knowing really what that even looks like.
 Battling with a ton of lies where you beat the crap out of yourself on a daily basis, you come through who you decide to come through this event with all that going on.
 All of that, we get solutions and tools to deal with.
 Your husband gets saved.
 Now your kids are getting their lives changed as well.
 The whole you choosing to do this, your whole family is being impacted on a great level and for the rest of their future.
 Would you, does that sound about accurate?
 Oh yeah, and it goes much even much bigger than that even with getting into the root system.
 I was able to have longer conversations with both of my parents.
 And we really dove into why they are the way they are and there was a lot of forgiveness.
 And it was, it's just amazing the relationship I have now even to put my parents.
 Just from understanding the roots and knowing where they came from now and it just feels like the conversations with them are so much better.
 There's a deeper understanding and even my parents are just amazed at the change they see in me and my husband and our family.
 So it goes even beyond what just happened with my husband and myself and our kids.
 I see it kind of stretching out from there.
 And I got the great opportunity to meet your dad and I love watching that happen.
 So it's not just the change in going from you as parents down to your kids, but it's a change in going from you back to your parents and changing the rest of your relationship with them.
 That's so powerful.
 What are you seeing different now in that relationship?
 I think just the amount of trust has grown tremendously.
 Also I guess there's a deeper respect and understanding not just from me for my parents and what they've gone through.
 But from them directed at me as well.
 And it's so good. We've gotten a lot of phenomenal information from you.
 And I really appreciate you doing this because there's so many folks on the fence right now that need to hear what this is like and how much it can impact their lives and how worth it is to take the time to do this.
 How do you see life differently day to day even like how do you looking at life now?
 How do you see it differently?
 The biggest thing is I don't get up in the morning and go, "Oh boy, here's everything I got to do today."
 You know, just starting out the day with the weight on the shoulders.
 Now the first thing I do, I wake up and I go right into prayer and take a look at what you have in store for me today.
 I'm going to remember that you're here with me and we're going to make this a great day.
 And just being able to start off each day just has changed everything.
 Because I'm now positive.
 More positive with my kids in the morning.
 I'm more positive with my husband.
 I come into work with a huge mile of my face.
 Just ready to get started for the day.
 And it's amazing because there were days where I'd come in here.
 I'd have the weight on my shoulders.
 My team would come up to me and go, "Okay, and I'd be like, "Please give me a half hour.
 I need to focus."
 And now I feel like I'm ready when I come in the door to say, "Okay, here's what we're doing. Let's kill it today."
 I'm so not ready for you. Go away.
 That is so cool. I love it. I love hearing that.
 I think there's so many people right now that are listening to that going.
 As we talk about this, it's one thing for us to talk about it because you're skeptical.
 Maybe maybe not. But when you hear somebody saying, "This is how life is now."
 I go to work with a smile on my face.
 I love what you just said. I'm more positive with my kids in the morning.
 I'm not so in essence, I'm not having to control Andrea to control other people's thoughts of Andrea.
 So I get to be authentic Andrea.
 Is that sound accurate?
 Oh, yeah.
 I love it. So what would you say?
 So there's a ton of people listening right now that have not come through next level of life.
 They're sitting on the fence. They're afraid to take the big step to change their lives.
 What would you say to them about coming through next level of life?
 Don't let fear hold you back from getting rid of the unhealthy fear in your life.
 Just let it go. It's amazing how much different you'll feel afterwards.
 It's so freeing.
 So powerful.
 For those that are thinking, we didn't even talk through much on the strat plan side.
 But for those that are thinking about that, what would you tell them?
 It was definitely life changing for sure.
 To be able to be there as a leadership team and working through everything together,
 meet all the difference in the world.
 And it wasn't just the conversations we had in strat plan,
 but we would go back to the hotel and we would have pow-outs for an hour or two or more.
 And just the conversations that came out of it, the quality,
 conversation that came out of it, we were able to communicate so much better as a team afterwards.
 And we still are. And it's just amazing the amount of things we can get done now, versus before.
 Yeah, what was the difference of you guys walking in the door?
 And you guys leaving at the end of the week with you guys as a leadership team.
 When we walked in the door, we were silos.
 When we walked out of the door, we were a unified team.
 Much better communication, tons of communication issues on the front side,
 solidly communicating by the end of the week.
 Good stuff.
 All right, one last question.
 If you could go back to a young Andrea, which you're young anyways,
 but if you could go back to a younger version of you, what would you tell her?
 I would just remind her that, you know, it's not,
 don't try and seek worse from people.
 You have God by your side.
 Look towards him for your worth because anything else is just a temporary bandaid.
 And bandaid are just that temporary and they're only going to get you so far.
 Good stuff, Andrea. Thank you so much for doing this.
 I really appreciate it.
 Thank you, Chris.
 Oh, my pleasure. My pleasure.
 And hopefully we will get to see you guys soon.
 Are you guys coming down to the retreat at all?
 No, you guys probably will.
 We are.
 We're not.
 Because two of the guys are on vacation.
 Yeah, that makes sense.
 Well, thank you for doing this.
 Folks, I hope you realize the power.
 Of this discussion and the things that have happened.
 Not only look at all of the stuff, not only Andrea's life,
 not only being free.
 I love how many times people say, you know,
 what's the biggest thing that you see differently now?
 It's like, I feel free.
 I feel free. I feel happy.
 I feel that I don't have to have control.
 But how much not only how much it's impacted her individual life.
 Well, look how much it's impacted generations both up and down.
 Her kids, her marriage, her husband's future, her parents.
 All of that's within the last month.
 That's not including what this is going to be like as she continues to walk this out.
 So let us help you to find freedom.
 Again, even if you're not somebody who struggles with the same things that Andrea has struggled with.
 Everybody coming through.
 Now, one person doesn't have surface level responses that are controlling their decision making.
 Now, one person doesn't lie to themselves.
 Now, one person doesn't need to hear more information about their root system about the truths.
 Everybody needs that information.
 So, ChrisLicrittle.com/nexlevelif or ChrisLicrittle.com
 and click on what we do, the button up top and then click next level life.
 Either way, do either one of those to just take the next step.
 But does not mean that you're signing up for the event.
 Get the information because what we can do is give you the information that would help you to see how much this is going to impact you in your life.
 So just take the next step.
 That's all you got to do.
 Do not sit there thinking to yourself, I'll get to that someday.
 Do not sit there being afraid of what you're going to discover.
 Which, by the way, the biggest fear that everybody has coming in every single person is the fear of the unknown.
 Did you have that coming in, Andrea?
 Yes, I did.
 And did you discover anything that was worth having that fear beforehand?
 Nope.
 Nope.
 So, they'll folks get after ChrisLicrittle.com/nexlevelif.
 And we will help you to find freedom in your life as well.
 Once again, we hope that this has helped you as always.
 Take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, your spouse, your kids, your parents, and join us on the next episode.
 (upbeat music)
 [MUSIC PLAYING]