 [Music]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show folks. Today we are talking about the worst kind of leadership.
 Now, some of you are probably sitting there thinking, I know exactly what that looks like.
 I've had that leader before. Some of you may be thinking, "Oh gosh, this is going to be about me today."
 [Laughs]
 Is this stuff he's going to describe? Does that include me? It's possible. It's very possible, right?
 That's the reason why you're listening to the show. You're wanting to grow in your leadership.
 You're wanting to grow in your personal life. You're wanting to grow in the way you run or lead your business, your team,
 all that kind of fun stuff. So that's why we share the things that we share.
 This is stuff that I've experienced in life that helps me to lead other people to either do or not do these things.
 That's where I've grown my leadership from.
 Is good experiences, bad experiences, probably most of it from failures, right?
 So, leadership by its very definition means to lead people.
 A title, an office, a desk, a business guard, or even having a team does not make you a leader.
 If you think otherwise, you're a dork, right?
 If you think that having a title makes you a leader, you really do not understand the concept.
 One of the reasons I can help leaders in business owners to succeed is experiencing bad leadership.
 And again, learning what not to do and what to fix.
 And that's why we're talking about the worst kind of leadership here today.
 If you want to know if you're a leader, it's very easy to do turn around.
 Is anybody following you?
 If they're not, then technically you're not a leader.
 Your goal is to lead people to something or to do something, especially something that they may not do on their own, right?
 Something they may shy away from or might be too risk of earth.
 Your goal is to lead people, as we say here, your job is to make your team successful, not the other way around.
 So, that is why we're talking about the worst kind of leadership.
 And today's episode is brought to you by next level of life.
 Do you ever find yourself asking in life is this it or find yourself filling unfa-filled, stuck in the same old stuff, but never moving forward.
 And it's not just affecting you, it affects your relationships as well.
 It's just frustrating, isn't it?
 What if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose?
 What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict?
 Where would you be in five years if you had clarity, purpose and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today.
 I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself, is this what the rest of my life is going to look like?
 So let me tell you, there is a better way and it starts with next level of life.
 You can go to curcercord.com/discovery to take the next step.
 Next level of life is a two-day personal discovery experience.
 It's a one-on-one personal event where we guide you through a process to help you get unstuck and life.
 Improved relationships and discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace.
 So if you're struggling with discontentment, regrets or not feeling good enough.
 If you're filled with things, I'd be your relationships or liking, don't keep going through the motions every day.
 Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace.
 Go to curcercord.com/discovery and take the next step for a better future.
 Back to our topic for today, the worst kind of leadership.
 We're going to talk about how to avoid the worst kind of leadership.
 Now probably one of the first things that I remember from early on in my childhood and my youth, I should say that,
 when I first really experienced really bad leadership and it was something that I recognized was bad leadership.
 Now I'm sure this kind of stuff happened all the time and I just didn't, I wasn't assigning, oh my gosh, you're a leader in my life for this.
 So let me just kind of share this story with you.
 I started playing football as a little guy in what we called out on the West Coast.
 It was called Pop Warner Football.
 So we were just little guys.
 Teeny tiny, the two biggest sports I played was skiing.
 I raised in skiing and during the summertime I'd play football.
 And so I played all the way up into high school.
 And over the years, I was a wide receiver.
 I was a tight end.
 I was a punter.
 I was a kicker.
 I was a corner back.
 In a free safety.
 And when I got to high school football, I mainly played corner back.
 You know, by the time you get to high school, they narrow these positions down a little bit more.
 During a play, I was tackling a player in a way that slightly jacked up my ankle.
 I didn't break it.
 It didn't.
 You know, rip anything or anything like that, but it messed it up.
 It hurt it decently.
 I don't, it might have been a good sprain or something, but I remember I was down for a few days.
 Trying to be a tough guy.
 I didn't say anything about it.
 And I attempted to take care of it myself at home.
 And the next day, which happened to be game day, I could barely walk.
 I was struggling.
 I went to the game that day, but I didn't suit up.
 I mean, it was pointless.
 I couldn't actually walk.
 I wasn't going to be able to get out on the field and play.
 When I saw my coach, I told him what I did and that I couldn't play.
 It didn't say anything to me.
 He just walked away.
 And believing that he understood exactly what I experienced.
 He, I gotcha.
 A couple days later, Michael was healed.
 I think it was like three or four days later.
 And I was ready to hit the field.
 So I practiced very well every day.
 But on game day, the following weekend, I sat on the bench.
 Up to that point, I had never been in a game that I didn't play unless I was injured.
 And I think I only had one other injury back in popcorn,
 which was a bruised elbow.
 Whatever the funny bone thing is, came down on a helmet.
 That was not fun.
 So it didn't make sense.
 I didn't understand why I'm sitting on the bench.
 I've played every game except for something years before.
 For the next three games, I found myself not playing.
 Each game I would go to my coach and tell him, "Hey, I'm ready to go in."
 And he would always say, "Okay, finally towards the end of the fourth game of being benched."
 I asked the coach, "And when I say being benched, I wasn't literally sitting on the bench."
 I just wasn't being played in the game.
 So finally, after the fourth game, I asked the coach if something was wrong.
 And he looked at me with just disdain.
 Now this has been five weeks.
 And he looked at me and he said, "Don't ever tell me when you can play."
 You ask me.
 And I was absolutely shocked and frankly speechless.
 I couldn't believe that for four weeks and a row, four games and a row,
 he kept me out of playing ball without ever saying a word.
 Without ever telling me why.
 Now as a teenager, I realized that this was horrible leadership.
 This is an authority in my life and this is how he's choosing to respond.
 Unfortunately, it wasn't the only time I would see a leader treat their team,
 I'm not the same way.
 So the worst kind of leadership for me is punishing your team because that's not leadership.
 Punishing is not leading.
 So understand that, especially when it's all about your control.
 Listen, I do not want you to think it anyway, shape or form what I'm saying is,
 is that you can't hold your team.
 I'm the accountability guy.
 I'm the guy who teaches all the time holding people accountable.
 Choices and consequences.
 If you make a bad choice, you're going to get a consequence that goes with that.
 So please don't look at this the same way.
 What I'm saying is the worst kind of leadership is the kind of leader who punishes their team for stuff.
 Instead of taking the teachable moment, instead of leaving them, lead me in this situation.
 Don't rip your teams head off.
 Don't withhold information from a team member because you're upset.
 Don't start blaming team members or throwing people into the bus because you're out of control.
 The worst kind of leadership is the kind of leadership that's all about you,
 about being in control, about protecting you, defending you, about not being out of control,
 and not allowing situations to be things that you work through as a leader.
 The worst kind of leadership is the kind of leadership that rips people's heads off and
 blames people all the time and throws people into the bus or withholds information from a team member because you're upset.
 That's not leadership.
 That's terrible.
 That's just crap.
 It's not good.
 It's not beneficial.
 It doesn't benefit anyone even the person doing it.
 The reason why people do stuff like that is because they believe that they're protecting themselves.
 And in the end, what's happened is they've lost all respect all loyalty of everybody else.
 So make sure that you're not doing that.
 It's more about control than it is about making people successful.
 If you leave this way, you will lose the respect and loyalty of your team.
 You will also miss out on the teachable moments, which so much of leadership is all about.
 So much of my leadership is all about teachable moments.
 There has to be accountability.
 Leaders get in there and hold their team members accountable, but not by beating them up.
 By guiding and leading them to solve problems and to learn.
 They need to know what they're doing wrong.
 Champions want to fix what they're screwing up, right?
 They just may not know what they're screwing up.
 So for me, at 14 years old, I did not realize that if I couldn't walk, that I was screwing something up by telling him I wasn't going to play.
 Instead of asking if it was okay.
 I had no clue.
 I had no clue.
 But that teachable moment was lost when he didn't stop and go, "Are you asking me or tell me?"
 And give me the opportunity to respond, right?
 So instead of having even greater respect or loyalty for my coach, I lost it.
 If you don't want to be this leader, then great.
 You're on the right track.
 Now since we're talking about the worst kind of leadership, one of the biggest pieces that you need to be a great leader.
 Is communication.
 A big piece of everything that we're talking about today is communication.
 So if you do not have quality communication on your team, get it with disc profiles.
 If you guys have been listening to me for any length of time, then you know that the number one issue when it comes to business.
 When it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is not having high levels of quality communication.
 The best way to get the communication is to understand your personality style and to understand the personality styles of the folks that you're spending the most time with at work or at home.
 Go to christlacrilo.com/store and get your personality profile 2 day.
 Get it for your team members and family members.
 Go to christlacrilo.com/store and get disc profiles for you and your team and get started on the best ways to communicate 2 day.
 Back to what you can do, the weekly action items, the things that you can do right now to avoid being the worst kind of leadership.
 There are two things that you can take action on this week.
 Stuff you can do right now.
 The first thing you can do is assess your own leadership.
 Are you punishing your team or are you setting them up for success?
 Ask yourself how you're leading them.
 And if you have some people that trust you, you can ask them for input as well.
 If they don't trust you, then they're really not going to tell you the things that you need to hear.
 They're going to tell you the things that they believe you want to hear.
 So ask yourself the questions.
 Are you ever punishing your team or someone because you're frustrated?
 Ask yourself the question.
 Are you more focused on what they're not getting done for you instead of what you're not doing for them?
 If the answer is yes to either of these questions, then you're making leadership all about you.
 You're not setting your team up for success.
 Now I understand this.
 I understand that a lot of you are actually in that place where leadership is about you.
 Why?
 Because nobody taught you.
 Nobody taught you how to lead people well.
 Nobody taught you how not to make it about you.
 Nobody taught you how to set team members up for success.
 That's why we do what we do for a living.
 Our goal is to constantly train you to be a better version of yourself as a leader.
 To be a better version of yourself as a wife, as a husband.
 To be a better version of yourself as a team member.
 Somebody's got to take you.
 You've got to learn this information.
 So a lot of leaders, a lot of leaders that come through next up on Mastermind.
 A lot of leaders that come through Straplin have never been taught how to lead.
 So, their leadership tends to be all about them.
 So take a hard look at yourself, assess yourself honestly.
 Ask yourself these questions.
 Are you punishing your team?
 Are you focused on what they're not getting done for you instead of making sure that they're successful in their role?
 Here's the great thing about it.
 When you make them successful, you never have to focus on what they're getting stuff done for you.
 That's the whole concept.
 If you make them successful, by default, you become successful.
 Number two, get out of the leadership crazy cycle.
 Gosh, so that you have time to lead people.
 The leadership crazy cycle.
 This is the number one lesson that we push in to level Mastermind for our clients.
 This is the first thing that they need to go through.
 We're going to have some people on in the next month or two.
 Talking about the impact of their leadership and how it took them years to decide to kill the leadership crazy cycle.
 When they did, how much it changed their business, how much it changed their leadership.
 So the leadership crazy cycle too, it's most basic form is when you're so overwhelmed.
 And you're so caught up in doing tasks and things.
 And you're focused on your identity or your worth coming from the things that you accomplish in a day.
 That instead of spending time leading people to success, you spend time doing tasks and being overwhelmed.
 You spend time not knowing what you got done today because by the end of the day, your brain is on fire, right?
 Your brain's just smoking.
 If that sounds like you, if you've ever been in this place where you just don't even know, you get home and your spouse is what you do today.
 And you're like, "A lot, but I don't know what it is.
 If you're overwhelmed with all the things that you've got to accomplish, you are stuck in the leadership crazy cycle.
 It's causing you not to lead."
 And it's keeping you under a mountain of tasks.
 When you're out of it, you have the freedom to set people up for success and invest in them instead of staying stuck in poor leadership, right?
 Because anybody who's stuck in the leadership crazy cycle is not leading.
 That's the key.
 That's the point.
 When you're overwhelmed with all the tasks that you're trying to accomplish in a day, and you're not duplicating yourself, and you're not getting things off of your plate that you should not be doing.
 What if things we do inside that lesson?
 That's a big lesson that we teach.
 One of the things we do in that lesson is ask people to calculate their hourly wage.
 And then take a look at some of the tasks that they're doing and ask themselves, "Would you pay somebody else on your team?
 The amount of money you're taking home to do that task?"
 Oh boy.
 That is an eye opener.
 So we're going to be doing an episode on the leadership crazy cycle and how to get out of it soon.
 So don't miss that.
 We did an episode on the groundwork of what it looks like to set up your team for success.
 So make sure you go back and listen to episode 272, where success will leaders spend their time.
 Now we'll link to that in the show notes as well. I believe on the new iTunes app. You just slide the
 low picture up, but it should have all the notes underneath that.
 It used to be you would click on my big head and you could have that information,
 but now I think you just slide it up and the show notes are underneath there.
 So if you are in leadership in any capacity, you have got to care more about your team than yourself.
 You have to set them up for success. You have to be looking for the teachable moments. You have to care.
 Even if somebody is doing something against your leadership, even if somebody is not respecting you as a leader.
 Look for the teachable moments to help them to see what they can do better.
 Help them to grow help them to be successful.
 If you will do that, then you will technically be a leader.
 And you will most likely be moving in the direction of being a great leader.
 Care more about your team than you do yourself.
 Folks, thank you so much for listening and being a part of this community.
 Now if you have a minute to spare, please leave us a review on iTunes.
 So more listeners can find the content they're looking for.
 And so we know these episodes are helping you guys. If you have questions or suggestions or if there's content,
 you really want that would impact your week to week.
 Please email them to podcast@christlicker.com.
 We check that email every single day.
 Hopefully this was helpful for you today.
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]