 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show folks. I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 It's a good day here in Tennessee and joining me on the show again, Brian Alex from Wonderful
 Sicily. Welcome back to the show Brian. Good to have you back on.
 Well back by our popular demand of course. Absolutely. Yes.
 I say that jokingly. Tongue and cheek.
 You were on today because we have a great topic and I actually am I'm so looking forward to this.
 We've not gone heavy into the details. This is something that you wanted to hit and wanted to
 discuss as an open, just many of the ones I don't know the details. We go into this
 because it's a great idea that you have of just discussing this. And so today we're talking about
 what's on with we believe yes. Not a couple of people are so far. We're doing our
 ideas great. The idea is perfect. It's awesome. Yeah. I think it was the other day.
 Yeah. So today we're talking about what's wrong with just coping. And so there is so much to this.
 And we only have a limited amount of time to get to this. But when we come back right after this,
 we're going to dive in as far as we possibly can and get to some great information. So we'll be back
 right after this.
 Freedom. It's so powerful. I don't rejuvenate and almost renewed. I just felt so welcomed and loved and
 accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment. So I was very comfortable there. That had
 a really big impact on me. It's going to be worth it. It's going to be hard. But it's going to be
 even better on the other side. For me it was just a very refreshing and I want to say life giving
 to me really was. You know, I would go to the next of the life again and probably again and probably again
 because it's so powerful. I want you to ask yourself a question. Could you hear the sense of
 hope and freedom and their voices just then? I want you to know that could be you. Look,
 it's easy to get trapped in old habits, negative thought patterns and unhealthy relationships.
 It's going to take some work. But yes, there is hope for you. If you want to experience the same kind
 of life transformation, the same kind of self-awareness and freedom that they have or maybe you're just
 curious what the process would look like for you, then head on over to crsacrido.com/nextlevellife.
 All right, Brian, take it away. Explain why we're hitting this topic. Well, you know,
 stress isn't going away. And you know, everyone has various coping skills, strategies for dealing with
 stress, trauma, just the frustration that we all find in life. But you know, this is something that
 you and I have discussed numerous times and especially when I was in Nashville and going through
 some really tough times, this topic came up. And even, you know, some funny analogies came up that we'll
 get into in a minute. But the broad strokes idea is, how do we know how much coping skills are actually
 helping or hindering our personal and psychological growth? And, you know, looking at different,
 you know, psychology today and other sources, there seems to be, you know, some debate on if it's actually
 helpful and to what extent or does it actually mask our feelings and hinder us from dealing and
 resolving with what's underneath the surface? And so, yeah, I wanted to get into a few of these because,
 you know, like I say, I think we probably all have developed certain strategies for dealing with
 stress, you know, even, you know, when we're young, you know, count to ten before you say, you know,
 if you can't say something, something nice, don't say, you know, there's these, you know, these little
 resets that we do sometimes, I'm going to go take a walk, blow off some steam, go to the gym,
 crossfit, whatever, you know, we all have those go to things. The problem is, in moments where that
 stress doesn't go away or that trauma doesn't go that problem doesn't go away. Instead of just
 other coping skills or amping up those coping, you know, we can easily go into vices in order to continue
 masking some of those about you, you tell the story, I think when I got there about somebody,
 you know, who would immediately start cleaning. I mean, like cleaning baseboards with toothbrush,
 kind of cleaning. I mean, this is, yeah, that was a go to mechanism, right? And that is one of the
 things to understand, there's a lot of women who are listening right now that go, oh crap, as he talked
 about me, if that's you, yes, it's not just one person. It is a lot of folks. So there are a lot
 for women, especially depending upon personality style, a lot of times it's at high-seat personality
 style, high-s personality style, but really usually what it is, is it's something that allows them
 to be in control during that time. So it's not just one person, it's a ton, right? That's something
 that Heather used to struggle with. You know, when she felt out of control back in the day,
 then cleaning was something she would jump on right away. There's so many people who can relate to
 this and they don't recognize that there's a lot of other women who are going to do this as well.
 Some guys will do it. Usually, if it's a guy who's doing it, it's usually a high-seat guy
 and it usually has something to do with organizing, you know, organizing a garage, a shop or,
 you know, redoing something that's already been done once before, right? Because what it does is it
 allows them to feel in control during that time frame. Now here's an interesting thing.
 The amygdala in the limbic system of your brain, the amygdala actually sets response to situations.
 I believe it sets response according to how much you're going to respond to a situation. So whether it's
 just a small amount of stress or if it's like a heavy duty amount of stress, I believe and I don't have
 the scientific data, I only have the scientific data that it does trigger response in the amygdala.
 So what tends to happen is that something happens in trigger or something and it could be a
 happy response. It could be a decent response. It could be going postal. It could be whatever that response
 is that happens in your brain. Well, here's a funny thing. The amygdala resets every 20 minutes.
 So if you're able to solve within that 20 minutes, you know, without getting that situation
 restimulating the amygdala to respond again, then you can get over this. Usually takes 20 minutes.
 That's why we go for a walk. That's why we go workout. That's why we do something for a short period
 time to get back in control because after that amygdala resets, then we can be fine. So that's just
 without applying anything, without putting any tools in place, without doing anything, then you can
 know that usually in a lot of folks are going, "Oh my gosh, I know my husband. It takes him about 20 minutes,
 my wife. It takes her about 20 minutes before their over situation. Unless it resets." And if it resets,
 then it's another 20 minutes. So just kind of understanding that where people use mechanisms or coping
 mechanisms to get back into control. I'm out of control right now, what's the thing that I can do
 that I can feel a lot better? When it goes to baseball, cleaning. Cleaning is one thing when it goes to
 scrubbing things. And again, it's not one person. We've had many many folks that have been through
 that that is a heavy duty stress mechanism, coping mechanism. That's usually time to something that's
 heavy duty in their past as well because they're feeling really, really, really out of control. And
 that is something that the focus, the shutting everything out, that really helps them to get into a place
 of feeling more in control. And I don't know of a time. We've done over 500 next level of life.
 I don't know of a time that that level doesn't tie to something in the past as well. So yeah,
 there you go. Lots of information. Yeah, gosh. There's so much there that happens in just a
 you know, an instant of time. And we go to those strategies, those mechanisms. But one of the things
 that we talked about and it was true, at least in my case, it was helpful for me to see that getting back
 you know into quote unquote control or even just feeling differently than how I was feeling at the moment,
 a lot of times was for me the knee jerk reaction. It was the goal. I just want to feel different.
 And that is so dangerous a place to be. And then what you're feeling moment.
 Yeah, then how I was feeling in that stress and that trauma and that, you know, difficult situation.
 And instead of really digging down and sitting with and accepting and understanding my feelings and
 what they were saying to me, what they were indicating to me, I became absorbed in strategies. And I
 think that was probably part of the conversation, you know, as I'm sitting there talking and you were in the room,
 you know, you were noticing, oh well, this is just all strategies. And you know, maybe that
 will, it's kind of like, you know, you've got crutches, but you're not setting the bone straight or you're
 you're wearing designer eyeglasses, but you're not getting the corrective surgery. I mean,
 it's, it's helpful to a point, but it's not a long term strategy, but it's so easy to get absorbed
 into those strategies, not the solution. And it ends up occupying a lot of mental space for us
 that we could be using to really sit in our moment to accept our feelings, respond in the way that we
 want to, you know, and grow through that. I remember this now. This is a conversation you and Heather
 were having because you guys have the same, a lot of the same coping techniques of little things that
 you'll do that helps you to get, I remember this now. Yes, yes, the key is. And so I want to make sure
 everybody understands, I am not saying don't cope. I'm not saying don't use mechanisms. I have to
 have times where I have to just go like for me to, I don't know if I will call them coping mechanisms,
 I would say that they're two solution-based coping mechanisms. First thing I do is I question the
 living daylights, why am I feeling this way? What's going on? What am I experiencing? What am I doing
 wrong here? The second thing is prayer. You know, Lord, help me to overcome this, you know, first,
 first thing I have to get to, where most people are looking to blame shift and guilt transfer
 somebody else. And it's your fault. It's this thing's fault. It's nothing ever works. It's this,
 you know, all this stuff. One of the things I try to do, try, try, try, try, try, try, try. Try is the key word here.
 Is to get to what is my part? What am I doing? What am I struggling with? If I'm struggling with something,
 if I'm frustrated, why am I frustrated? And if I can get and focus only on me, get stop thinking about
 the person I'm frustrated with, the situation I'm frustrated with, whatever it is, if I can dig in and
 find out, then I can ask myself, is my response okay? And if my response isn't okay, and so understand,
 the guy who teaches this gets frustrated. I had a situation not too long. I was dealing with somebody
 just super pride, heavy-based, massive denial, but still seeking to get information. And it's like,
 I'm frustrated. It's like, as I'm trying to let go of a conversation going, this is pointless.
 I find myself getting frustrated, the person wouldn't let go of the conversation, and I have to go,
 but I still have an option here. I have a choice. I can do something about this. I can end this,
 but my highest says, no, you got to end it peaceably, which was it going to happen. So I have to
 stop and go, why did I do that? Why did I allow that? What's the thing that I'm struggling with?
 And then go to, okay, where's my pride in this? Where's my struggle in this? Where's my,
 you know, need to be right? What is it? Is it in there? Is there, you know, what can I do about it?
 So to make sure everybody understands, there are coping mechanisms that you can do in the moment.
 I highly suggest a walk. If you're angry, if you're just mad, if you're just frustrated,
 get up and go walk. Your migdola is operating right now. It's telling you you need to respond
 in a way that you're responding. You probably do not recognize that you're massively out of control.
 You may be being rude, a jerk, you may be controlling manipulative, you might be whatever.
 Anything, right? Because if you're that out of control, then what tends to happen.
 You tend to try and control people or situations, which means you're probably not
 being the nicest person in the planet right now. Go for a walk. Go do something.
 That's different than, like let's say you're dealing with a stressful situation. Some people go do
 work out. Maybe it isn't you being a jerk or controlling or anything like that. Maybe this stressful
 situation is happening. And if you just go get some endorphins going, you'll feel better about yourself.
 The problem is is what we tend to do is sugar. That is a huge, huge, acceptable coping mechanism
 for people. Shove a bunch of sugar in your brain. Why? Because it does the same thing in your brain as
 cocaine in the pleasure centers. It lights up your pleasure centers the same way. Sugar is acceptable.
 People keep sugar around all the time. They will just keep tons of sugar in their body.
 Alcohol, cigarettes, drugs, control manipulation, avoidance. There's all kinds of things that we do.
 The big key is, are any of those actually helping you? Maybe it is helping you in the moment. If I eat
 a candy bar, I might be less stressed in the moment. But does that solve the problem that I'm
 experiencing? Does that take away the issue that I'm experiencing? No, of course not. Right? Now if you're
 a high S, you're hoping that it by coping and procrastinating, this thing's going to disappear. Well,
 most likely it's not going to. The key is, is what are we going to do about it? If going for a walk is okay
 and that helps you out, then great go do that. Then what do you do to fix the problem overall when
 you're done with your walk? I think you hit on a key theme that we return to time and again on
 the show and that's self-awareness and having a healthy understanding of what's happening on the
 inside of you. That was one of the healthiest things that I was starting to learn about in the moment.
 Because in my personality style, it can take me a while to dig down and understand exactly what I'm
 feeling. But if I don't do that hard work of understanding how I'm feeling and why I'm reacting the way
 that I am in the moment, I'll never grow out of that pattern. I'll never really do that. A healthy
 control of myself and my responses. I think it's to where those coping mechanisms, maybe it
 depending on your anger or what's going on, it may hold you back from punching somebody in the throat.
 That's a great use of coping in that sense. But there's another sense where if that pattern continues,
 the stress is going to compound and our coping skills are going to have to compound because we still haven't
 addressed the underlying issues and responses and why am I feeling like this? Is this appropriate
 for the situation and we're never going to have that self-awareness to be able to really truly manage
 our own soul, our own emotions, our own heart and grow through that experience? One of the worst coping
 mechanisms follows victim mentality. When you live in coping mechanisms, so here's the thing,
 man, man, man, man, people, please get this. When you only do the coping and you don't do the solution,
 what ends up happening is you live in this place of going, why does this all happen to me? Why is this
 always happening? How can I always have this, how can people always do this, how come this thing is always
 in victim mentality just racist, right in and next thing you know, every situation is happening to you?
 So this is the big key about man, if you can get to solution and even if you're feeling like a
 victim in the moment, but you can get to a place of solution, then the great thing is is that you start
 seeing the situation and the options that you have. When I'm in this conversation with somebody who's
 just being super prideful and controlling, I have the ability to get out of the conversation and I've done it
 a bajillion times. It's tougher usually when it's somebody I loved yearly, you know, because I want to
 help that person. I want to help everybody, but if I don't know you that it's a heck of a lot easier for me to
 go, I'm sorry, I'm done with this conversation, right? When it's somebody who's super close to me,
 then it's tougher because I'm hoping to get to resolution for that person, right? But I still have
 the option. So for somebody who does what I do for a living, imagine, well, you'd already know this,
 I get attacked all the time. What I'm pushing on somebody to help them to overcome something,
 quite often the attack comes my direction, right? And so if I'm pointing out something that hurts or
 something that's painful, hey, you know, here's something that you are struggling with or here's
 something that you've said or here's something that you're doing, well, people don't, you know,
 even though they come to us to try and solve this stuff, it doesn't mean it's not going to be a hurtful
 moment, sometimes they attack. Well, if I didn't live in the, hey, this isn't about me, this is about
 this person's struggle, understand what they're going through, have a heart, teach love, then we wouldn't
 have a business. I mean, we really wouldn't be able to do what we do, right? Which is also another
 reason why it's that the next level of facilitator role is the toughest higher I've ever had in my
 life is getting somebody who can get rid of self because you have to be able to be in that moment and go,
 what's healthy? What's okay? What's acceptable? What's absolutely not about me? What is about this
 person's struggle? Or, you know, whatever it is and go through all of those pieces and then try and
 put something together and help that person. Well, as the individual, if you're the individual,
 you have to recognize that if you do not stop just coping, then eventually you become a victim.
 You become somebody who all of these things can, I don't understand why this is always happening to me.
 Well, it's simple. You haven't put in healthy boundaries with that person. You haven't stopped doing this
 thing that is affecting you in a negative way. You haven't created a better opportunity to not
 experience these negative things when they happen. So it's important to know coping is not bad.
 In the moment, if we can get through the moment, I'd really rather you actually try and face the
 situation and solve it, but if your brain can't get there because your stock, go cope, do something,
 not drugs, not alcohol, not that's that go for it. For air is usually huge. That works well for me.
 Then let's get back and solve this so that you don't become a lifelong victim.
 I love the sense of responsibility that goes along with that and taking ownership. That is
 real control to use that word is we're in control of our thoughts. We're in control of our words
 and actions. We're in control of our responses, not the other person, not the situation. When we're
 feeling out of control, it is so healthy. It's so like you said, it's so hard to do in the moment
 sometimes, but it's so healthy if we can get there. When you were saying earlier, just about asking
 yourself that question, stop thinking about the other person, stop thinking about the situation,
 self-assess, why am I feeling this way? I can just hear my own victim mentality because that's
 something that they did to me. She said this or he said that or they did this or this guy just cut me off
 in traffic. That's why I'm responding this way. That's still that victim, just that sense of ego-centric
 selfishness and that victim you could. It immediately even would we start that self-assessment
 process. It's so cool because we've got some episodes. I don't know if you've heard already,
 but we've got some episodes that we're developing and there're going to be one is going to be on
 the lies that victims tell themselves and the other is lies that villains tell themselves because each of
 us toggle back and forth, we can easily be aggressive, abusive towards others or everything's happening
 to us and we're going to examine those lies and build the contrast there to help us. Do you exactly
 know what we're talking about right now? Get to that healthier place quicker each time by self-assessing
 and taking responsibility for ourselves? I love it. I love it. I love it. That is fantastic. Actually,
 I look forward to those. Those are some great episodes. I can't wait to see what you're going to
 say and it's going to be helpful to me as well. Thank you for doing what you do. I appreciate you
 having this conversation with me because I've been thinking about that a lot lately and this goes
 back a few years now, but just remembering I can't allow myself to get stuck in these coping strategies,
 coping mechanisms and not do the real work of sitting in the moment, accepting what's happening,
 accepting these feelings, asking myself those tough questions, where is this coming from? Is this
 appropriate? What do I need to do different? But man, that's it takes a lot of hard work. It takes a
 lot of practice, self-awareness, grows, even my own self-esteem from the fact that I'm taking responsibility
 for myself, but it's all kind of counter-intuitive because our knee-jerk reaction is to point the
 finger outward, not accept responsibility, be the victim, make it everybody else's fault, that I'm
 out of control in this moment and we never grow and it's hard to even sit and see what's happening
 in the moment, but that is a fabulous first step to be able to take ownership and to grow through these
 things and get rid of those coping. We got a distinguish here, I'm sure, between coping and
 you need to exercise, you need to clean your house, you need to organize things, you need to take a walk,
 you need to all of that. That's a great way to bring up. Something that is super important for people
 to understand is that one of the things that we are doing with the rich, a big part of what we're trying
 to accomplish is to one move our business to this place, that's in a healthier environment,
 healthier food, life stock that's being raised is non-GMO, no-corne, no-soy, the very things that
 are affecting so many people on the planet beyond organic vegetables, all that kind of stuff, a big
 part of that is because people are pumping themselves full of crap. There's a couple of things we
 have to understand about our body. If you don't have quality fats, your brain needs quality, clean fats,
 not fats pumped full of antibiotics, not fats pumped full of chemicals, not fats that are full of bad
 grains and we don't do corn, we don't do soy, 94 to 96% of the world's soy is genetically altered.
 I mean, that's something you have to understand and it's everywhere. It's not only in foods,
 but it's in things in your home. The reason why I'm saying all this is, we put crap in sugar.
 Oh my gosh, sugar is destroying your gut bacteria, your microbiome, the microbiota in your stomach and
 your gut in your intestines gets destroyed by sugar and allows bad bacteria to grow. Why it's all
 that important? We've talked about this on many shows in the past. We have plenty of health episodes,
 so if you've not listened to those, go back and search those. Here's what I'm talking about this.
 When I put junk in my body, it affects my emotions. When I'm feeding myself crap,
 my mental state response. Now there are, you know, I've said before that there's a more
 serotonin comes from your stomach. Well, the studies now are saying that there is 400 to 500 times
 more serotonin in your stomach than in your brain. There's 400 to 500 times more melatonin in your stomach
 than in your brain. Why is this important? Because your brain is sending sick or your stomach
 is sending signals to your brain. So as research continues to grow and understand this,
 we need to recognize that when we put crap in our gut, it sends signals to our brain and we respond.
 Sometimes we respond with heavy duty emotion. Whenever you see somebody that has just a poor diet,
 they're usually heavily emotional. They struggle. They have ups and downs. They have rollercoaster
 days. They might have a good five minutes right now, but then they're like tanking 10 minutes later.
 When you don't get quality sleep, when you starve yourself, I'm only going to eat this tiny
 amount of food because I'm watching my weight. Next thing you know, you have got these terrible mood swings
 and spikes in your body because you're not eating well. There's great studies coming out right now
 on a probiotic strain that is actually proving how much even healthy people eating healthy foods
 still have insulin spikes and drops. Even if you're eating something healthy, you can have that
 insulin spike. Imagine if it's pure crap. What am I saying? If you could be working on
 solving problems in your life, you could be working on great things, wanting to be the best person
 on the planet. If you're putting crap in your system, chemicals, toxins, sugars, bad processed foods,
 then you're setting yourself up to really struggle when you struggle. It's one thing for me to
 be in a situation and get frustrated because something happens and then I can deal with it. I can solve
 it. But if I physically messed myself up my emotions up because of bad stuff in my body,
 now it's multiplied how emotional I'm going to respond to that situation. It's just like,
 think about alcohol. Everybody who's ever made bad decisions while drinking. Why do you make
 worst decisions when you're drinking, then what you're not drinking? Because your feeling
 thoughts, emotions are all impaired by this toxin that's in your body right at the moment. Right?
 Listen, I am somebody who really enjoys the glass of wine. I'm not saying you don't drink. I'm saying
 be smart. The stuff that Heather and I drink is so natural. No so-fights added. No sugars added.
 No genetically altered yeast by the way. Most of California's wines are now using genetically
 altered yeast. Think about that. We don't pump that crap on our bodies. But if we go out to a restaurant
 once in a great while and have glass wine, we feel it the next day. We can tell there's a difference
 in what's happening in our body. So I'm glad you brought that up. It's not just a deal with
 your emotions only. Take a look at how you're setting yourself up to react to a bad situation. What
 happens when we know we're going to step into a bad situation? Let's say we're going to a family
 outing or something in a couple of days. What does our diet look like usually a few days before that?
 Pure crap. Why? Because we're dealing with our emotions that we're preparing to go deal with our
 emotions for. So we handle the emotions then. And then we dump a bunch of crap on our body to go deal with
 the situation. It's just terrible. It's just terrible. Yeah. No, it's so powerful to realize that we can
 be setting ourselves up for success or we can be putting a stumbling block in our path every day with the
 routines that we have the diet, the exercise, all of that, our body and that gut, like you said, the second
 brain as it's called, has a lot to do with our reactions or over reactions, under reactions, all of that.
 And that is so powerful. We do have some health episodes under development. We have a health series
 coming up later in the fall. I'm excited to get you and Heather on the show talking about that.
 It's going to be super fun. But man, thanks for spending the time and unpacking this. I hope this
 is helpful to folks that are used to just coping and getting by, but never digging underneath the
 surface to resolve. Maybe this is a catalyst for them to head in that right direction. Yeah. And
 you know what folks if you're listening to this and you're like, okay, this is great, but I have questions.
 Send them in podcast@crystallicuro.com. As you listen to something on like this and you're like, well,
 what do I do about or how do I handle or whatever it is? You can always send this questions
 so that we can help out with that. So send those to podcast@crystallicuro.com and we will do our best to
 answer all of that. Well Brian, thank you again for such a fabulous idea and a great conversation.
 I think this is so powerful and so helpful. So thanks for joining me. Have a fabulous evening.
 As we are digging on with the morning of our day. Have a fabulous evening and we will be talking soon.
 I hope so. Well folks, hopefully this has helped you today. As always, take this information,
 change your leadership, change your business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]