 How to communicate with others and a way that brings clarity and unity that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today we're talking about the ups and downs of communication, especially when it's tough.
 Now some of you may know Sam Walton from Walmart, a previous owner of Walmart. He said that
 "communicate everything you can to your associates. The more they know, the more they'll care.
 Once they care, there's no stopping them." So information and more accurately,
 quality communication and lots of it is vital to your team taking ownership of their work,
 remaining accountable and moving forward with excellence. Think about that leaders.
 Think about that team members, right? The greater the quality communication, the more ownership,
 the more somebody doesn't just come work for a job, but instead they own it, they take
 accountability for it, they move things forward. So let's start with a simple question.
 What's holding you back as a leader from relaying vital information to your colleagues and your
 teams in order to bring clarity, unity and growth to your business? Now, maybe you have a
 knee-jerk reaction to that question and the reaction is, "Wait a second, our communication is
 fantastic." Now we'll tell you, we hear that all the time. Anybody who's listening to this,
 it's been through strap-land knows that we, I'm giving a little secret away here. Folks that are coming
 through strap-land soon, we'll probably pick up on this. Anybody who's been through knows that I'll
 ask on the opening that how communication is and the numbers are always high. It's always sevens and
 eights very rarely would you see somebody say like a five, right? Unless they've heard me say
 that I do this little trick. That's not a trick. But the next day we go through communication
 heavy duty focus on communication and we will get halfway through the day, three quarters to the day and
 I'll say, "Hey guys, rank your communication again and the numbers are like instead of sevens and
 eights are like twos and threes. They're shocked at how bad the communication is." Now, they thought
 it was phenomenal. What's the difference? Why is it so shocking? Because nobody's taught them
 high levels of quality communication and what that looks like. So here's what I'm saying.
 The number one issue that we see with every single business that we work with coming into our programs,
 the number one issue that is holding leaders and teams back from greater unity and greater growth
 is a lack of high levels of quality communication. And I mean quality communication. Yep,
 and that might be true for you and your business as well. So let me put it another way. High levels of
 quality communication can be your greatest asset. While at the same time, the lack of this kind of
 communication at this level can absolutely be your greatest liability. There's just no way around it.
 But if it's risky to not communicate well with your team and colleagues, then why are so many business
 leaders and owners communicating so poorly? Well, it turns out the communication itself is a risky business.
 So when we come back, why so many leaders don't communicate well with their teams and what their risk is
 by not turning things around immediately. Hey folks, a couple years ago I was visiting with a
 client and the CEO said to me, Chris, we're not going to hit our goal. I asked him what he meant. And he said,
 we're going to miss our three year revenue goal coming out of Stratpland by a few months. I didn't
 realize it at first that he was having a little fun with me by saying they were about to triple their
 company in less than three years. How freaking awesome is that? Folks, these are the kinds of results
 that businesses get by coming through our four day Stratpland events. On average, we find two point
 one million dollars worth of revenue in the next 12 months that the company was not planning on.
 And this event is for all size businesses. If you're small, medium or large, it works for every single
 business because it's not industry specific. It's about gaining all the information about all the
 things inside of your business that are holding you back from success and then giving you a plan
 and a process on how to walk that out and be successful in your business. By discovering the things
 that are holding you back, it helps you get to all of those goals that you've been planning on for a long time.
 So if you're ready to get the perspective, you need to solve what's holding you and your business back,
 so you can grow faster than you need Stratpland. To learn more, go to Chrissacardo.com/Stratpland.
 That's Chrissacardo.com/Stratpland.
 So before we dive into the risks and what could be holding you in particular back, we need to
 talk about what communication is at its core. Now communication is a broad subject.
 Most dictionaries have it as the imparting or exchanging of information, sitting in receiving
 messages, transfer of knowledge. But what does it look like in practical business situations?
 What does communication look like in Zoom meetings? What does it look like in email exchanges? What does it
 look like in vocal exchanges? What does it look like when you're doing training or directing somebody
 tasks, delegating mastermind coaching, voice messages, difficult sit-down tough conversations, hiring
 interviews, firing interviews, and so on and so forth. Communication is more than just words.
 There's both verbal and non-verbal communication. I think every single one of us understands that if we've ever
 received or sent a text that was misunderstood on having a specific attitude or specific tone.
 I learned that back in the 90s, I was doing logistics in the early 90s and I sent a message to
 somebody and they asked me why I was so upset and I couldn't figure out why they were asking me this question.
 And they showed me the message and when I looked at it from their point of view, I could see
 that it came across as being something upset. I'm like, no, no, that means this.
 And it goes, you know, I wonder if I took that the wrong way. That caused me to be
 the King of Exclamation points. I am the guy who puts smiley faces in an exclamation point
 for decades because I don't want my message to be unclear and it sucked feeling like I, you know,
 cause somebody to think that I was upset at them one. I was actually just relying a piece of information
 in a different way. So it's important that we understand that communication is more than just words.
 There's both verbal and non-verbal communication and it makes matters even more complex.
 There's personality styles that complicate our sending and receiving of information. You've
 heard me say that a lot. So there's a lot going on and that's the point. There's a lot going on.
 There's a lot that can and does go wrong in communication among teams and leaders.
 People can choose to be offended. No matter how you deliver your message, how well you do.
 If you do it really well, if you do okay, if you're phenomenal at it, people can still be offended.
 People can misunderstand the information that can misunderstand your intentions like I was just
 pointing out. People can feel overwhelmed. More information can add complexity. Not enough information
 can add complexity. I remember one time years ago, I was delivering something on,
 we were moving in a direction on something and I was just sharing with the team some of the
 stuff that we were going to do and I was watching one of my team members eyes just bat and roll back in
 her head. Very high-y see personality style. I stopped and I said, hey, what do you experiencing right now?
 Because I knew she was taking on stuff and I hadn't gotten to the point of saying what we're going to
 do with the tasks that we're going to do. So I said, what are you receiving? She's like,
 you just added a ton of work to my plate and I go, did I give you that work yet? It's just like,
 well, I guess not. That's it. Okay. Then don't receive that yet. Let me finish with the communication
 and get to where we're going to be adjusting things, moving things around, changing priorities, all that
 kind of fun stuff and you could just see the relief hit her face at that point. But I still needed to
 recognize that as I was delivering this information, she was receiving it as though it was going to be
 something that was dumped on her plate. So part of great communication is reading those non-verbals,
 right? Being able to see that somebody is responding that way. So a lot of what we're talking about
 isn't so much about communication or information, so much as leadership. So let's clear the playing
 feel a bit as a leader. Your job requires you to communicate. Now we're going to touch on this
 later, but the more mature and stuff where you are as a leader, the less you'll find these kinds of
 communication errors. That said, let's go ahead and dive into some of the risks. The risky business
 of communication. So I want you to ask yourself two questions about risk, the risk side of communication.
 Number one, ask yourself this question. Why don't leaders typically communicate well?
 All right? And if right now you're saying to yourself, I do a phenomenal job.
 Let's just assume that you don't. You know, maybe you're incredible. Maybe you're top of the
 wrong here on being able to communicate incredibly well. But let's just assume that maybe you don't.
 Right? Why don't leaders typically communicate well? The first thing to say here is that great
 communicators are incredible listeners. A huge hurdle in communication is that we often don't
 listen to understand. Instead, we'll often listen, you know, even out of minimum, just enough so that
 we can reply. How many times have you experienced it or how many times have you done this yourself
 that you're listening and you're building your reply in your head at the moment? You're not getting
 all the information. You're not gain perspective. You're not even going to ask any questions back.
 You're just ready to reply. One of the things that drives me crazy is as I start to
 discuss something, explain something, whatever, and somebody shoots it down with a reason
 and they haven't even heard the whole thing. It becomes one of those things. Let me go ahead and finish
 this. Let me put this out there and then afterwards they're like, "Oh, well, then this answer over here."
 It's like, if you just wait two seconds, you can hear the whole thing. Don't listen to reply.
 Listen to understand. Be curious. Be curious. What is this person have to say? Where are they trying
 to go? What are they trying to communicate? Right? And as long as you're curious, then it makes
 it easy for you to gain perspective. If you are self-centered, if you are self-focused, and you're only
 listening to reply, then quality perspective gathering cannot, cannot happen. You cannot gain
 quality perspective while your focus is on you relaying information. It's impossible. Think about it.
 It's not that difficult to understand. If all you're waiting to do is respond, you're not getting
 good information. Another hurdle is, instead of gaining perspective, we're trying to gain an advantage.
 I see this all the time when people are self-protective. I see this all the time when people are defensive.
 I see this all the time when people are trying to control or manipulate a conversation or a person or
 a situation where instead of gaining quality perspective, they're focused on getting an advantage.
 If I'm self-protective, I want to protect myself. I'm going to start throwing things out. Maybe attacks,
 maybe accusations, whatever. What does that mean again? Back to self-focused, self-centeredness.
 I can't possibly gain perspective because I'm focused on how do I have an advantage. How do I
 gain an advantage? Another hurdle is, while we're forming our response, we're literally missing
 valuable information. Now, for those of you who quite often find yourselves at a conversation with
 somebody and you feel like you've got everything and you start spitting things out, only to find out
 that you missed things, you didn't hear things. Listen, take responsibility on that. You've got
 to recognize that because you're not all there, you're not all focused. You're not present. You're so
 focused on you that you're missing information, that you're not hearing everything. What does it take?
 It takes transparency, which is literally openness and honesty. It takes accountability. It takes vulnerability.
 Now, that may hurt. If you're with me on this and you're being self-reflective enough and you're
 being open to this being something you may struggle with, that might hurt. It's probably not what you
 wanted to hear. But this ties into some of the obstacles that leaders might be sensing. Some of the
 obstacles would be stress. I've got so much going on that I don't have time to communicate. Well,
 I'm too overwhelmed. We see that all the time. I've had those moments in my earlier career where
 being taxatrated. I don't have time to communicate. Let's go guys. We've got to get this done. Do your
 part, right? And then next thing you know, I'm not communicating well enough for somebody to do their job, right?
 How about insecurity? I don't want to be too open. They might see my weaknesses. Listen, folks.
 Leaders, let me help you to understand something very important. Your team already knows your
 weaknesses. Think about the people that you've worked for in the past and the weaknesses that you
 recognized in them. Guess what your team recognizes them in you. So stopping and secure,
 stop worrying about your weaknesses, recognize your own weaknesses and fill those with people who are
 strong in those areas. I have a lot of folks on my team who are a high compliant high-c personality
 styles because I'm weak at that area. That is not, I think I'm after 30 years. I'm finally up to like
 a 40 on my seat. I'll never be a high-c and that's okay. It's a weakness of mine. I am not phenomenal
 with details. I focus on dates. I used to be a 10-c about 30 years ago, 28 years ago, something like that.
 But I realized that if I didn't cover myself, then I would come back to bite me in the
 butt later on. So I have forced myself over the years to be detailed in areas and it's still only taking
 me up to like a 40. I'm weak in that. I need people who are much better than me in those areas.
 So if I can recognize my weakness, I don't have to worry about insecurity. You're never going to see
 me fighting to be a strong high-detail person. That's just not, that's not me. I don't care about
 it. It's not important. What's another obstacle? So forth. If I share with others, then I won't be as strong
 or valuable. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Listen to me. Your worth is not in the opinions of others.
 Now for your business, working for your business, your worth to that company most likely is your ability
 to accomplish your job well. So in our business, that is not people's worth. That's part of their worth.
 We pay them to do a job, but we look at them through the eyes of God. So that is not their great worth.
 Is their ability to pull their job off. That is what we pay them to do. Right? So that's a part of it.
 But self-worth is not, it should not be a struggle in leading and communicating to people.
 Because your fear is that if you are vulnerable, that you're going to lose power. You're going to lose
 authority. You're going to lose respect. Whatever. What you will find. What you will find is the more
 vulnerable you can be without getting into crazy personal stuff. Don't be too vulnerable. What I'm
 saying is we're talking about communication. If people can understand, like, well, just take for example,
 me talking about the fact that I'm weak in my sea. I don't have a problem being vulnerable about that.
 I'm not trying to protect that. I'm not trying to hide that from people, right? Instead, I want people to
 understand, guys, don't turn to me for that. If you're looking for details, I've got a bunch of people on
 the team. Let's get you to them. Come to me for the bigger picture stuff. Come to me for the deeper answers.
 But if it's details on where I need to go find a specific HR form, well, I'm definitely not the guy
 that you're going to turn to on that. There's nothing wrong with being vulnerable about that.
 Another obstacle is anxiety. I'm too busy. I can't focus. I can't take time to train. I can't
 take time to explain that kind of anxiety is absolutely going to keep you from being a great communicator.
 If you're constantly focused on how anxious you are, and listen, people are finding more and more
 reasons to have anxiety nowadays. I'm not saying they're making it up. I'm just saying a lot of people
 are absorbing anxiety from things around them, things from the world, things from social media,
 news, all that kind of crap. I stopped watching the news literally during the Bush Gore race.
 I can't even tell you, I don't remember what you're that was, because I found myself having the news
 on in the morning and by the time I got to work, I just felt upset because of everything that was being
 reported. I finally said, "Oh, cut the news out. Get that stuff out of here. I didn't even watch
 the news until a couple of years ago, and I needed it when it was during COVID. And that was it, right?
 So get the things out of your life that are causing a lot of anxiety as well. Another obstacle would be
 pride. I don't have to share information. They just need to do what I say. Pride, pride, pride, pride. This
 one sucks for all these sock, right? All of these are things that we need to work on. We need to fix.
 We need to overcome. We need to be better at. Pryads one of those things that you will hold on to,
 like crazy. Like it's a best friend, right? Like it's a, it's an heirloom that you're keeping,
 because it has such great value. Pride is the false self, right? It's not the true self.
 Pride is saying, "I'm better than I am because I have to puff myself up." So by doing so,
 what it tends to happen if you're not going to communicate because of your pride, what you're going to
 do is this whole thing's going to backfire on you. You're going to not communicate in an attempt
 to be prideful, which is going to cause you problems in the future, which is going to hurt you.
 Well done. Great job. Guys, we got to lose the pride. Another obstacle is fear. Well, I don't
 want to have another confrontation. That's uncomfortable. I don't want to say something that somebody
 gets mad about or fights about or whatever. Listen, if you're fearing the confrontation,
 I can already promise you it's probably going to happen. Right? Fear of a confrontation is fearing
 something that hasn't happened yet. And it may not happen. But there also is this self-affilling
 prophecy that we can do that when we avoid something so much or fear something so much. We actually
 cause it to happen. Jump in, tackle the stuff when you can. What it needs to be done, get it
 done up front, don't do it in anger. Get things done. If you have to have a tough conversation,
 get the tough conversation done. You'll be amazed at how much better it goes than if you wait
 and then have it down the road when things have built up and have become more stressful. So
 number two question, what happens when leaders don't communicate? Well, I want you to ask that.
 What has happened for jobs that you've had in the past when you've had a leader who didn't
 communicate well, right? What happens when you don't communicate well and you see the responses in your
 team? What happens when you communicate? What happens when leaders don't communicate? Well, well,
 here are just a few risks of letting that list of obstacles I just read get in your way. One would be
 lack of direction. I shot kind of approach as a definite result of people not communicating well,
 not making sure that people are lining, moving in their same unified direction, no sense of goal,
 people will go after whatever they think they need to go after, right? Like a community,
 like a unity and mission vision, values, culture, strategies, teamwork breaks down. People become
 frustrated. It creeps into the individuals into the team, into the project that they're trying to
 accomplish. Isolation teams create silos. The whole collaboration collapses because they're only focused
 on protecting them or getting the thing done that they need to get for themselves and they could
 care less with somebody else is doing and how it affects them. Confusion happens. KRA is
 KPIs are rendered meaningless because we're not communicating well enough. So we were trying to hold
 somebody to a result or a measurable and because there's no great communication, it just doesn't matter, right?
 Confringation becomes an obstacle to accountability. So because we're not communicating well,
 because these obstacles are in our way, because confrontation now exists, it becomes an obstacle for
 us to be able to hold somebody accountable, right? Or to hold a team accountable or a process accountable
 or a project accountable, right? Bad behavior and poor performance dominates workplace when we don't
 communicate well. That means that we're obviously not doing a great job to hold our culture up
 and how we want people to operate in our culture. So guess what happens? Bad behavior happens,
 poor performance happens. All of these things, bad culture, starts to build up in your own business.
 Also, culture breaks down and erodes even further because instead of being able to celebrate the
 things that are great about our business, unfortunately what we end up doing is recognizing all the
 problems that we're experiencing over and over again, which means that we're probably losing champions at
 this point. We're probably losing clients at this point and we're probably just not even having
 time come to work here. So when we come back, what smart leaders know will happen when they cultivate
 high levels of quality communication and high quantities on their teams? Hey leaders, this is Joel
 Fortner, VP, Leadership Development, Acrystall Cardo's company. I have some questions for you.
 Do you as a leader feel like you are caught up in a crazy cycle of stress and task that never ends
 week to week? Do you ever have to deal with tough conversations with team members and you sit at home
 the next day, the night before worry about how's it going to go? What am I going to say? What are they
 going to say? Can I think fast enough on my feet? Is it going to be a total failure? Are you experiencing
 culture problems or that stuff that just breaks down trust and unity on your team? Well, if you
 can relate to any of this, this is a pretty typical leadership story in situation. Here's the
 thing though. It doesn't have to be that way and we can help you solve these things. We can help
 you become the leader that solves these problems and leads 13 to greater success. I want to introduce you
 to the key leaders program. This is an ongoing leadership development program that gives you the lesson
 track, coaching and accountability you need to become the leader you can become to actually implement
 what you're actually learning in this program. Things fall apart without great leadership and
 intentionality. If you want to solve the problems that are holding you back from being a great leader,
 we can help you with this program, get in touch, Joel at ChrisLecordo.com.
 Okay, I want to focus on that thought of high levels of quality for a second before we dive into
 rewards. Now Mark Twain said, the difference between the right word and the almost right word
 is the difference between lightning and a lightning bug. I just love that. That's just so fantastic.
 It's so clear in helping us understand when we don't communicate well, it could be drastically off.
 The understanding could be drastically off. The performance can be drastically off. The outcome
 could be drastically off from what we were expecting. So the right words delivered in the right way
 can make all the difference in your communication. Now high quality means knowing who you're talking to
 and transferring vital information to them in a way that they both understand and can implement.
 So it's not just an out that they can understand it. Can they do something with it, right?
 So for it to be high levels of quality, you've got to think more about them. Let me say this again.
 If you're going to have high levels of quality communication, it can't be about you.
 It has to be about the other person. Who do we always focus on us? How do I communicate this?
 Well, how would I want to receive this information, right? Which I'm not saying that's a bad
 question to ask. But what you should be asking is who's my audience and how do they usually
 receive information? If you can get that to them, fantastic. Okay, so let's say we're doing this.
 Alright, Chris, I'm going to do these things you're talking about. So what are the rewards if I do?
 Well, I want to answer two questions about the rewards out of communication.
 Number one is why do successful leaders communicate? Well, why do they? Why is it so important?
 Why is it a focus, right? Successful leaders value transparency and honesty above their pride.
 They know that quality communication is about empowering their teams.
 They know that they must focus on others in order to grow their business.
 They don't get their sense of worth from appearing to have it all together. They're able to get
 out beyond their sense of comfort in poor and two others. This is a big one right there, folks.
 This is big. If you are focused on staying in your comfort zone, the last thing you're going to
 do is focus on pouring into others. And they're naturally responsive to their teams.
 Personality styles and needs a great leader. Everything I just shared there. Every single one of
 those bullet points is not about you. It's about other people, right? It's not about me.
 It's about the people I'm leading every single one of those. It's about me getting out of my comfort zone.
 It's about me caring about people's personality styles, how they receive information.
 It's about me getting my pride out of the way. It's about me empowering other folks.
 Everything is about the other people. Water successful leaders communicate well. Here's the answer,
 because they understand it's not about them. If you get that,
 if you get that, you can change your communication forever. You can change the way your team operates,
 your business operates, your clients receive information, your vendors receive information.
 If you can understand that, it changes everything. That's when you begin to have high levels of
 quality communication. Number two, what happens when leaders communicate well? Well, there's a lot
 greater success, productivity, performance is created. And organic adherence to culture,
 which is so vital, teamwork and unity. The whole team is pulling together in the same direction.
 We've got a unified single direction. We're not operating in a shock in a approach.
 Everyone knows their role and how to execute that role, because it's clear to them.
 Teams know the roles of others and help others to be accountable and to hold other people accountable,
 which is fantastic, because it becomes self-policing, essentially.
 Strategies tend to get executed better and more effectively. I should change tend to, they do.
 They will get executed better and more effectively. So think about it when you don't have good
 quality communication. How many of your strategies are falling apart? Confertation or
 difficult conversations, tough conversations tends to correct culture. Like a
 chiropractor putting things back into place, things get back in line. And course corrections are made,
 and there's more clarity to the team members. That is what happens when leaders communicate well.
 So here's what I'm saying. High levels of quality communication for leaders is ultimately about
 their maturity and their self-awareness. Let me change that from there to your. I'm speaking to myself.
 Every time I teach the stuff I'm speaking to me, high levels of quality communication for leaders
 is ultimately about your maturity and your self-awareness. So some final thoughts on health and awareness
 of leaders. Going back to what we said at the beginning, leaders have to be good listeners first.
 Listen first in order to be good communicators second. I don't remember who was a chemopathy
 saying God gave you two years and one mouth for a reason. Use them accordingly. You have twice
 the number of ears. Listen twice as much as you speak, right? Leaders can't just give information in the
 same way that they prefer to receive information. They have to understand who they're speaking to.
 Who is your audience? What are their personality styles? What are their values? How do they tend to
 receive information? How much time do they need to prepare before you ask them questions or ask them to
 brainstorm something? How long does it take for them to process information, right? Also as a leader,
 putting your finger on the pulse of the situation and responding accordingly is vital in order to
 neither over or under respond. So folks, take all this information, right? Start recognizing where you're
 falling short, you, you, you, you, you, let's start here. Start with you. Start recognizing where you're
 falling short on communication. Start recognizing all of these tools that you need to start putting
 in play and getting yourself out of the way, getting selfishness out of the way, getting proud out of the way,
 start recognizing what it takes to communicate with high levels of quality communication. Then,
 leader, start making sure that all those around you can do the same exact thing. Teach them, help them.
 Well, folks, that's all the time that we have for today. I hope this information has helped you. If so,
 please do us a big favor, rank us, review us. This helps us to reach more people. It really, really does help.
 If this is helping you, do me a favor, help us to reach more people. As always, take this information,
 change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]