 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Well, if you've listened to the show for any amount of time, if you're in one of our mastermind groups or if you've attended one of our quarterly or annual events, then you've likely heard about KRAs, key result areas.
 It is a must for every leader and for every team member that they provide KRAs, key result areas, because this is both a roadmap and a destination for the role on your team.
 We're going to break this apart. We talked about this a lot, but joining me on the show today from beautiful Sicily, but no explosions from Mount Etna.
 So glad he's still with us. It is bright Alex.
 I welcome to the show. Every time it's a privilege, Chris, just count your names.
 I'm a little bit confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm a little confused. I'm
 You're likely familiar with the idea of a KRA key results area, because we understand that there is more involved in that risk.
 When you only have an outline and a bullet point of tasks that need to be accomplished.
 Those things are helpful when you're using a different platform to look for hires, and you've got to explain a little bit about the role. So people can match up.
 This is my experience. This is my skill set. It's all of that match. What this employer is looking for. But after they're in and let's say that there's a higher that you're bringing on board.
 I mean, that job description, to a degree, becomes obsolete because it's not just about tasks. There are certain expectations and all of that. I mean, probably 10 years ago, it wasn't as well known as it is today.
 But still, there is some confusion over, okay, if I've got a job description, why do I need a carrot? Why can't I just use my job description?
 So I wanted to pull this out from one of our clients, some comments that they had made not too long ago.
 They said the software developers on my team kept asking me things like, am I doing a good job? Am I doing the right things? What do you want me to do differently? And my initial reaction says the client was surprised. I thought they should know exactly how well they were doing right.
 I mean, we had a job description on further reflection. I realized it was me who had not been clear and I had a well-defined sense of job responsibilities different than a job description in my head, but had never stated them explicitly.
 If you've only got a job description for your hires, then you're likely in the very same position as this client. So Chris, we love if you would unpack for us. Some of the differences here.
 And what is this client talking about? And is this common? Do you see this with other folks that you take through Stratplans and do coaching with all of that?
 And Brian, I would love to answer that question and I will do so when we come back right up to this. Oh, the cliff anger.
 Hey leaders, this is Joel Fortner, VP, a leadership development at Chris L'Cardos Company. I have some questions for you.
 Do you as a leader feel like you are caught up in a crazy cycle of stress and tasks that never ends week to week? Do you ever have to deal with tough conversations with team members?
 And you sit at home the next day, the night before worried about how's it going to go? What am I going to say? What are they going to say? Can I think fast enough on my feet? Is it going to be a total failure?
 Are you experiencing culture problems or that stuff that just breaks down trust and unity on your team? Well, if you can relate to any of this, this is a pretty typical leadership story in situation.
 Here's the thing though, it doesn't have to be that way and we can help you solve these things. We can help you become the leader that solves these problems and leads 13 to greater success.
 I want to introduce you to the key leaders program. This is an ongoing leadership development program that gives you the lesson track, coaching and accountability you need to become the leader you can become to actually implement what you're actually learning in this program.
 Things fall apart without great leadership and intentionality.
 If you want to solve the problems that are holding you back from being a great leader, we can help you with this program, get in touch, Joel. Chris LaCordo.com.
 All right, folks are back and we're answering questions on KRAs. We're answering questions on job descriptions and KRAs key results areas.
 Many say key results area. It's either way. It depends on doesn't really matter how you say it, right? The concept is this is a key result that we want from the team members. So let me kind of explain again.
 And everybody who's been doing KRAs wants to hear the definition again because many times this is one of the toughest things to put in place.
 We call this the accountability gap. The place where you expect something of somebody, you've given them a job description on what they're supposed to do.
 Here's the tasks on what you're supposed to do. Here in my mind is a leader is what it's supposed to look like and the person doesn't get there.
 And we call this the task result gap because what a leader or an owner has in mind of what something should look like and what they've told the person to do.
 They give the person a job description, they give the person a list of tasks. Here's how to do this job in their mind. They know what the job should look like.
 This is the result that I'm expecting it to look like. Here's the tasks that I've given you. The person cranks out the tasks but doesn't get to the result.
 That gap in there is the lack of accountability. That accountability that's not showing in there is the thing that's keeping that person from getting there.
 Well, what does that mean?
 When you understand that telling a team member or giving a team member, you know, Brian, you've got while you have a lot of D, you have a lot of C. If you're in C mode and I give you tasks.
 If you're stuck in that C mode, all you hear is the specific task Chris said do this.
 Especially with somebody who's stuck in a high C mode, if they don't get out of that, well, I've not got exactly what you said to do.
 But remember I was saying it's supposed to look like this, but you didn't tell me how to get there. You told me to do this thing over here.
 And what happens is that if we do not help somebody to see the results, I'm pointing out the Cs because there are one of the best examples.
 A high C needs to see the 30,000 foot view to be able to do the five foot job, right? Then you can understand how this all.
 Yeah, let me just chime in there because I can say for the Cs.
 Yeah, I've had employers in the past where they would dive right into some of those tasks.
 And I would feel lost. I would feel like I don't know what is happening right now.
 All I can say is that I'm feeling flooded and overwhelmed with a series of details, but I don't know how it all fits together.
 You know, you've heard that old story about somebody passing by a house under construction.
 They see a plumber out there. They stop and they ask, well, how big is this house going to be?
 I don't know. Well, what about this and what about that? And they don't have any concept.
 You know, they're not the architect. They're just doing their one role. But it sounds like what you're saying with this idea of passing on not just the task and the immediate details for executing this specific task.
 But you're talking about a bigger picture where you're involving them in the output of all that, the outcome of all that.
 So that they're not just going in blind to do A to B, but they understand how it fits together in the whole in a larger picture, which, you know,
 Maybe you wouldn't think that. Maybe somebody wouldn't think that for a C is important to see the larger picture.
 But it's so important because then I don't get lost in all the minutia of the detail so quickly.
 Well, 75% of all other personality styles don't struggle as much, right? Because the D, he doesn't care. She doesn't care. You know, the high D personality style, you asked me to do a thing. I'm going to do the thing.
 They don't even care if it's a part of a bigger picture. It's not a big deal. The eye doesn't care. The S care somewhat. It needs to see somewhat of a bigger picture. But their focus is more on is everything going to be okay if this comes out.
 You know, how is this going to fail and what's it going to look like and is it going to hurt somebody in the process?
 The C is I don't understand what you're saying. I'll never forget the tie we were doing in events. And I was given you direct shot. So I was like, hey, I was like, hey, hey, the scent. I was given it saying specifically the sentence and you kept repeating it back.
 I saw I said it and you repeat it back the same. You said it out loud and I was like, yes, so I said it again. And then you said it out loud again. I could see the confusion. And after you said it the second time, I realized that you were saying the sentence.
 And the sentence without the context of the visual did I mean it was it I could see how confusing it was. And so then I pointed to the visual and you're like, oh, got it. Okay.
 And I had to listen to my made made it make sense.
 Yeah, totally I had to listen to these sentence. I was saying to you and go, I get why he doesn't get that right because he's taking it literally where for me, if you said that same sentence to me, I'm going to I'm going to flood the visual into it.
 What does this piece in this piece mean you go the high sea brain if you're stuck in scene now if you're in demode you don't have that same situation, but that that high sea brain goes literal word for word for word.
 And this doesn't make any sense to me. So this is why this is so important. It's not just the sees where we're specifically talking about the sees, but here's what I want you to know folks.
 This is every single personality style. The personality style doesn't even matter. It's the person if you have an expected result of something as somebody who leads multiple businesses as somebody who's done many major projects.
 I've ever surprised me that if I even just assume somebody gets what I'm saying that the result doesn't come out the way that I expected to be. So for me, I will tend to over communicate the daylights out of something just in case, right?
 So I mean even to the point of asking questions, do you understand that does that make sense? So what are we talking about? What is a key result area? So to answer that, let me go to what a job description is a job description is essentially describing how to do the job.
 This is a job. This is how you do the job, right? So it is essentially saying, here's the function of the job if that makes any sense, right? This is what we want you to do. Now obviously you don't write it when we put together job description, we don't put in every single task that you must do every second of the day.
 It's the big areas. It's the big bulky stuff. It's the things that we still expect you to use your brain and think about, but here's the things we feel like you need to know from that. So if I was running a car right today, I have my job description.
 Now this is the most important key. And if you're not listening to this, it's going to be confusing. You've got to get this most important key.
 From the job description, I have to ask myself, what is the result or results that I expect? So if Brian Alex does ABC and D, what do I expect it to look like?
 This is the result of you doing this job, Brian. I want it to look like this over here. So if I can say that, show it to you, you see the result, then you have a exponentially greater chance at getting to the result.
 If I don't give you a result and this happens all the time, all business owners who have been doing K-Race for years experience this in struggle this as well. If I don't give you the result that I expect of you, then what tends to happen is I come back upset that you didn't get to this result going what the crap is going on.
 And you're going, but I did my job. No, you didn't get this. I did exactly what you told me to do. Look, it's in my K-R-A using my air quotes.
 But the problem is is that we filled out a whole K-R-A of job description and not actual results. So people thinking they're doing a K-R-A, doing a key result area.
 Instead, do a job description on steroids and it just looks and sounds even better, but it's still task. It's not result.
 And this is where we have that task result gap, right? And that's where you kick the accountability in place. If you actually give them the result and you're able to explain it to them and they can see how to get there and they can understand what it looks like.
 Then they can go from the task and get to the expected result as well. So that is the importance of it. If you can get that piece and understand the key result itself.
 So let's say, well, let's just take one of our live events people. One of the key results areas for Dakota in our live events is that she sets up our next level of lives.
 She sets up the facilitated for success to be able to pull off the event without us having to go back and find things fixing. We need to be set up for success to do a successful event.
 Well, what goes with that is a lot of tasks, right? So if what I said was the key result is, is that the facilitator has everything they need.
 Well, believe it or not, that is a good result. But if it doesn't point out that I still need to pull off a successful event or let's say the task that the key result says the facilitator has, you know, all of their pens and, you know,
 dry race board markers and all of those things. Well, that's still a task that doesn't give me the result of the event being pulled off successfully by the facilitator, right?
 So a person could go in there, do the things that they believe are right. A facilitator steps in goes to do the event and then is like, oh, well, wait a second, I don't have this or how come this isn't here or hey, you know,
 food wasn't done today. And so now we've got to take this person out and go, you know, to a restaurant and whatever, if they can't see what the successful execution of the event looks like then as far as they did all other tasks right.
 So if I choose that and put it as a result, the result is that the facilitator is able to successfully execute a full next level life and, you know, give more details into that piece there.
 Then they can see what and explain what it looks like to be a successful event, then they can do the tasks and then think for themselves what's missing.
 Yeah, you know, hold them back. What's going to keep them from being successful. What else do they need? So by doing that, Catherine, who is Dakota's leader, who's done this for a couple years herself,
 has been able to think ahead when something like, like, somebody's coming through an event and a lot of no, they, their plane is light while she starts adjusting things. She knows to adjust. She needs to think for herself. She doesn't sit there and go, well,
 I guess I'll just leave that up to Chris or Joel, she'll start making adjustments or we had some folks that came in and had to drive back to Alabama after the event and their event got done early.
 So they had lunch, but it was stuck in between like a lunch and dinner time. And so she packed up a bunch of stuff and gave it to them to hit the road with so that they had food on the road for us three hour drive that they were doing.
 Just thinking through what does that look like, right? And so that makes the expectation that I have clear in her mind that it's not just to a task. It's more what else is there.
 Well, it sounds like, yeah, it's just a interject here. It sounds like the, it makes the job position itself and that person. It gives them the ability to be more intuitive about what's going on because they see the bigger result that they're really after that the task help them get there.
 So the tasks are contained inside of that result, but the result is larger than that. And so it's, you know, back to that the plumber and this construction site.
 If he's been talking to the architect and and the architect saying, well, we want to room over here in this over there. He's able to intuitively say, well, then, oh, maybe you also want this because that would make it a lot easier that if we put our,
 you know, water wall here and we do this and I know nothing about plumbing, so I'm just making up stuff, but I imagine what are those.
 I think I got that from a movie, but anyway, point is it makes them so much more intuitive and they're able to take ownership. So a catheter and Dakota is able to take ownership of that and go, okay, if I'm responsible for the success of this,
 you know, coordinator having everything they need to do their job and I'm going to set them up for success. They can begin thinking beyond the tasks.
 They can think about the outcome. They can improve that outcome and even, you know, taking taking ownership of it and intuitively taking it beyond what you had imagined because now you've got somebody else on your team that's yoke together and pulling in the same direction for an even greater result.
 Yes, and now this is where the most important part of having a KRA comes in.
 So you might be hearing all this and go, well, that's great. I just need to explain the result then. I don't really need a KRA. Nope. No, no, no, no, no.
 Here's the most important part of having a KRA in place the accountability. So as you just pointed out, they're, they're it injects a certain level of personal accountability because I can now see the picture and I don't know what it looks like.
 I know the destination. I know where I'm going. I see the tasks that I have. And so if I've knocked out all of my tasks and I don't have a water wall.
 And there's no water wall in place. Maybe that's not, but I know the result is they want this, this and this, then something's not right. Worst case scenario I'm going to ask a question. Hopefully I'm going to ask a question and go, hey guys, you told me to do this, but you said it should look like this, but do you want this should this be in there.
 And then all of a sudden a certain level of personal accountability is injected. If the person is willing to take personal accountability, personal responsibility, then great. There's that accountability.
 Here's the great thing for the leader. It becomes accountability for the leader to lead the person. So let me just dive into this. This is as far as I am concerned.
 The greatest piece of a carer. So we have phenomenal champions on our team. We can tell them to go in a direction. They're going to go do it. Right. They're amazing. They're not stuff out. That's great. They're in our culture. They're in our environment.
 They understand that kind of stuff that they don't. They're going to ask questions that's great. What happens if somebody isn't doing that. Right. Like what happens if you have somebody in a team who isn't going to think for themselves. They're not very self motivated. Whatever. Or maybe you have somebody who's great, but they're still just not getting it.
 The great thing about the KRA is as I give a person time to operate in this role. I sit down with them 30 days later. I go over the KRAs. However many of gots. You know, we don't want a ton. Three or four is great.
 Sometimes it might only be two. You really don't want to get five to seven. If you could stay away from that. That's great because these are the key results of the role.
 But I can now sit down with that person and go, hey, let's take a look at the number one KRA.
 And let's ask ourselves how well are you getting to this result. And now I get to grade that, right? If I look at that and I can say this person is not nailing this thing a hundred percent.
 Then I have to start this is where the most important piece kicks in that people are afraid to do. I get to hold the team member accountable. Why is that so great because believe it or not.
 In the beginning phases of of riding KRAs, you're going to find out it's probably your fault.
 If I look down at that key result area and I say, how come we're not getting to this and the person says, well, it's really difficult to do that because I don't have this software program.
 So it takes me four times a amount of time to accomplish that. And man, if I got the software, I could do it so much faster.
 Great, something I didn't anticipate. A lot of entrepreneurs or leaders can go knock something out and they never needed that software program, but then you pass it on to somebody else who's a different personality style.
 And all my guys should make it easier for them. And then they can do it 10 times better than the person did before that, right? Software. Oh, that's my fault.
 Always assume the reason why they're not pulling up the KRA in the beginning is the leaders fall. So I will go through every excuse or reason that they have and I will solve it.
 How come this? Well, this person over here, I keep trying to set an appointment to work with them to get this thing done and I can't get on their calendar. Great, let me go work on that.
 I don't have the right tool to make this thing happen. Great, let me work on that. Well, you know, you originally told me my greatest priorities are this, this and this. So I haven't been getting to this one yet. Oh, let me jumble your priorities. I should have been talking to about priorities.
 Whatever the reason is I then get to go take on the responsibility solve every issue until there is no leadership issues left, right? Because there may be and a lot of leaders just automatically assume the person sucks because they're not getting it done.
 And yet you may find out you're the one who set up a bad KRA or you didn't provide them with the things that they needed. I love it. And the reason why I do is because I want to provide all of those pieces and knock out every possible reason or excuse ahead of time.
 And then what's left over after all of this is the accountability of the team member. If I've given them every tool, if we've solved every problem, if we figured out everything that's holding them back from you know accomplishing this, then the only thing left is now why is the team member not able to get to it.
 And that's where the accountability then shifts. And again, if you've done a great job and it's a great person chances are you've solved problems or ever rock on.
 If it's somebody who's not going to do a great job now it's glaringly obvious.
 Excellent point and I want to go back and just tease out a little bit about what you were saying about the benefits to the employer on that side of things. This is continuing from the same client his comments.
 The other side of that coin for him was he says additionally writing out KRAs made me a better manager by taking the time to really think through what I expect from my team. I realized I actually had a number of gaps in understanding my own expectations and verbalizing these expectations.
 And I think that's what I think about the way I want to do that.
 There's a two way street here to the KRAs where as a job description ultimately is just you know here go do these tasks that I've laid out but the person doesn't understand why how it fits into the bigger picture.
 It's hard to be intuitive. They can't take ownership and like you say there's very little accountability with that.
 But on the KRA when we're looking at a larger a larger paradigm, a larger perspective of what's going on in the whole how they contribute to the whole I imagine it's much more fulfilling for both the manager and the employee to have those outcomes spelled out so literal and concise and clear that there's ownership and buy in on both sides.
 There's accountability on both sides and there's probably a greater sense of fulfillment on both sides when that plumber understands what he's contributing to the whole picture and understands how he's bringing his part his element to do and it's just these little tasks that he's getting a paycheck for but he's contributing to something greater there's a higher level of fulfillment.
 I imagine right? Yeah so you brought up you know I'm sure you see this in things you know like strat plan and all that kind of stuff.
 So let me take it to a much higher level right so this is the basic and the reason why we're hitting the basic level again is because this is difficult.
 I will tell you I still whenever I have a new leader either myself or Joel who you know is our new president of our company much deserved elevation to president in our company.
 One of us will go through with a new leader and still make sure that they are actually hitting the care raise is it an actual result.
 So even leaders that we will have on the team for quite a while will have them bring it to the table because even there are in our culture even though there are around this stuff it's still difficult to get your brain to go result result result result result result.
 Now so let's take it to the next level right or or even a few levels higher.
 When we do something like a strat plan we say all care raise need to be pointed at this strat plan outcome.
 So the expected outcome we're taking the whole business and we're pointing the whole business in one unifying direction which most businesses are doing what we call a shotgun approach they're running in 17 different directions which is a.
 Call loss of ways to resources right if you look at how big your team is if you're doing a shotgun approach that's why your team is so big.
 Because you're losing resources left and right right so for us at our company we're constantly pointing people in the same direction.
 So we accomplish more we don't have to keep hiring people to go make some other direction be successful.
 We want to be unified we want to be going this direction with all that being said a strat plan does that at points people in the same direction.
 So inside the strat plan especially the first one what we do is we tell people all care raise need to be pointing towards this strat plan like we will even suggest to people.
 How and you know the care raise on our team have a blip in there about how this role aligns with our strat plan what it does to pull off our own strat plan and we do strat plan once or twice a year.
 And around business.
 So why is that so important?
 Because now what I get to do is instead of just holding one role accountable for an expectation I get to paint the destination for the company I get to figure out what the destination for the company is.
 And then make sure that every resource is pointed in that direction.
 So now if I know where we're headed as a company what and I'm not just everybody always thinks numbers because that's the worst destination for you to set for your company is a number.
 Let the number be a result of the other amazing accomplishments you do and it will be higher than any number you ever set I've taught so many companies on this it's crazy right don't let it be a number.
 But the number be part of it but let it be a result of all the incredible things you're going to do with the team.
 So if I have this great destination the next destination you can have one mission but 700 different destination keep creating new destinations as you get there.
 If I have this next great destination then I get to look at every single role and say how does Brian Alex get us as a company there you know how does Joel forner.
 And then we're going to go to the team member team member team member team member team member team member how do these people get our company to this destination.
 What is the results that must happen for them to complete the strap plan results so with every strap plan we have the expected key deliverables the key results of the strategy that we're putting together the strap plan that we're putting together.
 Amazing results and it's usually six major results that are going to take anywhere from six months to 12 months to execute because they're still doing their jobs.
 These results are expected if we pull off this strap plan now I get to look at every team member and say do you align what if you don't.
 What if you're slightly off what if you're doing something that doesn't get us there what if you're doing something that doesn't matter anymore we don't even need that anymore what if I've not gotten you.
 A clear vision of where your role is going and how you have a greater purpose than just doing your role your role is a part of pulling this off.
 Now all of that if you can see this and I'm hoping that I'm explaining this well enough that people can get this in their head and Brian asked me any questions if it doesn't make a lot of sense.
 But if you can visualize now every resource has a expected results that are pointing towards your companies expected results this is where people blow it out of the water.
 This is where companies explode because now it is so unified it is so intentional it is the resources are being used at a greater rate value everything that now we are not can stuff out.
 We've had clients that have come through said I've done the same year after year after year and then went through this and knocked out four times as amount of stuff in a short period of time it's because of all of that so question files comments on any of that.
 Yeah I mean it sounds like you're saying there's there's a lot of synergy that can come out of understand the care a both on both sides for the manager and also for the employee the team member.
 It's also it's clarifying and it delineates like a mission statement would it you know we can we can judge ourselves by our mission statement to understand or we going in the right to keep thinking of the godfather quote all of our ships must sail in the same direction.
 But it sounds like it's it's delineating because if we're after those results there might be tasks that we add or that we drop off I remember you know sitting in our team members all the time and we'd go through an event we'd miss something or we change something you know the next level life coach no longer needs.
 A paper you know sheet on the wall or the the marker we're going to change to this and so the task may change but the outcome is still the same and can actually grow how do we make sure that they're being successful and they're going to the next level and so those tasks come to bear their serving.
 That outcome but that outcome is trained on and is serving that greater direction that the the company is going so it's it's clarifying it's unifying their synergy from that it's also delineating because at any given time we can delete.
 The task that no longer functions to serve that greater outcome that we're after and you know to me that's a that's a great distinguishing factor between what a job description does.
 And that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a great thing that's a
 I mean there's so many aspects that we can discuss on this but I want to hit the most important pieces so let's use you as an example.
 If you don't have a vision for where you're going how do you view your job compared to if you do have a vision for where you're going.
 You don't know where you're going you don't know how these fit in how does that how do you feel as a team member compared to hey Brian here's the overall vision go get us there with these tasks how does that make you feel I'm just flipping burgers at the McDonald's at that point you know it doesn't it doesn't it doesn't do the how those insisting I didn't know that.
 I can't tell you if there any better I think there's a lot of mythology built up that McDonald and Burger King are better over here.
 I have not seen that result in every Italian I know says case key fo which means how gross but anyway point is I would just be doing some monotonous role and I wouldn't understand my value to the team and there's you know that assessment of the value.
 I'm going to be a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a
 I'm going to be a manager because when I really took the time to think through my expectations I saw that I had gaps in my understanding just like you were saying oh I'm going to solve that for the team member because we need a software or I'm going to solve this because there's a communication gap going on here let's bridge that and you're setting up your team members for success so that.
 I'm on the back end is they're setting up the company for success yeah I mean and so you're serving them in that way it's beautiful.
 Everything you're saying is fantastic because you're part of a mission you've got a purpose all of those pieces what if you're just flipping burgers.
 You don't have all that vision that destination that the ability to make changes give you know create solution all that you just are flipping burgers what happens with Brian Alex.
 Well I tell you what happens on a team with Brian Alex.
 There's there's communication gaps there's the tendency to silo and isolate there's a sense of frustration and like what am I doing this for.
 I think all of it it's a breakdown things start to break down and the task becomes an into itself and it becomes this tug of war between an employee and the employer well I did what you said just leave me alone stop hassle and me don't call me accountable to nothing.
 I can't say beyond the little things that I'm doing and you experience this all the time on teams when you bring them through strap plan how many of those team leaders are are pitted one against another because their teams don't have care raise even they don't have care raise there's that tendency to silo and isolate and there's confusion and communication gaps and disunity all of that kind of stuff comes to play.
 And if you take anybody who's a champion if anybody is worth anything and they should be on that team and unfortunately I've seen a lot of leaders lose champions because they thought the champion was not a champion only to find out later on it's that they didn't set that person up while the person didn't really understand what they were doing.
 Any champion who doesn't have a vision who doesn't have a destination who doesn't have a purpose is going to go find one.
 And it will not be in your business right they're going to try and make it happen in your business they're going to try and see if they can't get you to help them to have a greater vision a greater mission.
 And if you're going to have a greater purpose but if ultimately what they see is nope just to tasks that's all I have for you that eventually that champions going to go forget this I want to go find some place where I feel valued.
 Where I feel like I do have a purpose bigger than just doing tasks so that is the reason or those are some of the reasons.
 Some of the more important reasons that we feel like every single person on a team should have a care right.
 Every person should have a job description obviously but don't stop there start there start with you know usually what we will tell people to start with the job description so you see what you're expecting them to do of the role and then build out the greatest results.
 Can some what reverse engineer this I do not suggest people trying this in the beginning.
 Because you're probably going to screw this up you will screw this up if you've been doing this for a long time you can reverse engineer it with the results and then put together what the tasks are to get to the results.
 These high d's that are listening to this that just want okay I'm going to do that from now on don't get really good doing care is the right way.
 And that eventually you'll be so good at it when you've done you know 30 40 of these things and you're the one who's done them.
 Then you'll be able to start seeing what's the result I expect of the role and then reverse engineer and what so what are the things that get us to the result it's it's tougher to go that way so please don't start that way.
 Biggest thing is make sure the result is an actual result not a job description but Chris you say that we can put job descriptions under the result it's okay I don't I'm not going to fight you on that I prefer you didn't.
 If you need to that's okay as long as the result is a result and not just a you know funky looking job description right make sure that you've got that and then if you do not come back and meet with that team member on a monthly basis.
 So when they are killing it stretch it out do it every two months every three months every six months I usually wouldn't go you know trying not to go you know less and twice a year unless it's just one static role that you can do once a year because they also want to know that that you know that they're doing a great job and all that kind of on stuff.
 But hold them accountable if they're not getting to the results that you expect what's necessary what can we do about that.
 Yeah let me just add if you're listening to this and you're feeling a little bit lost just about carays how do I even begin.
 Let's do this if on our website we've got some great tools and resources for you I'm going to put a link in the blog post associated with this episode on the site so that you'll be able to go to crystalcardo.com find this episode that we've entitled why can't I just use a job description.
 I'm going to put some hyper links in there for you to be able to download sample kra's and find out more information if you're ready to get started so that you you have a starting point and you have a couple samples in front of you to use as you begin this journey of creating kra's for your team.
 That's fantastic that is fantastic. All right folks will hopefully this has helped you today if this is created more questions great.
 To us podcast at crystalcardo.com we want to hear it because our goal is to get you to success that's the reason why we do this right that's the reason why we even have this show is we want you to get to success.
 If there's other confusing things you want to know about podcast at crystalcardo.com and we will try and get those answered as well.
 Please do us a big favor go write us go give us a comment on iTunes and let the world know so that we can help them get this information as well that really helps us to reach more people.
 Well as always we want you to take this information change your leadership change your business change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]