 On today's episode, helping your team members own and run with a vision that you have for
 your company.
 That's coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardos Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover
 that business is what you do, not who you are.
 So welcome back to the show, or welcome to the show.
 This is the voice of Joel Fortner, President of the Pointing Group, stepping in for
 Chris again for another illustrious addition of the Chris LaCardos Show.
 And I reserved the word "elustrious" only for when Brian Alex is here to welcome back
 to the show, my friends.
 I appreciate that and I look forward to hearing that where you're the only person who considers
 me illustrious.
 I don't know what way or what sense and I don't care.
 I don't either.
 I don't either.
 And I'm not even sure if it's a illustrious with an A or an I.
 I don't know the word well enough.
 So I can be concerned about the meaning out here there.
 Yeah, I could be discussing you out.
 We have no idea right now.
 Yeah, for some of our wordsmiths want to write in, podcast at Chris LaCardos.com and
 tell us what you're doing.
 Joe's doing here in my paying a compliment or am I heavily offending Brian.
 All right, what are we doing here, brother?
 Where is Chris isn't here?
 You're here and I'm over here.
 We've got, I'm on first, you're on second.
 That's right.
 And we're going to hit a home run with this episode together today.
 So basically it's our load.
 That's right, here we go.
 Let's strike out.
 So brought up on the show with another how to episode where we pose a question or a topic from
 a client or a listener and we try to give some opinion and some really practical advice and
 some short steps that you can carry out or coming right out of the episode.
 Yep, that is the idea.
 Hopefully we will, Chris, if you're listening, you tell us if we're, if we scored here
 or not, I hope so.
 Now, if you're just joining us, the way that we have these particular episodes, the how to
 episodes set up, they tend to be a little bit shorter and we're going after a central thought.
 Most of the time it comes in from a client or friend colleague and these episodes are built
 with one, one aim in mind and that is to respond to a particular question and hopefully give
 enough practical advice as if this were a personal coaching session.
 That's what we're after.
 So today's show is about how to help your team own the vision.
 Doesn't matter how big or small your company is.
 You've probably got folks on the team who are just kind of mad about the vision.
 And so we want to talk about bringing team members closer to the heart of your business,
 understanding, owning, engaging with it, running with the vision of your company.
 And, you know, hopefully we've done a good job on the front end in the hiring process.
 And if we haven't, it's going to be a really long struggle to get people on board with the vision
 and the mission.
 But before we get into that and try to answer the question of how do we get people on our team,
 really on board with where we're going as a company before we get there.
 I know that in our circles and Chris is mentioned this several times on the podcast, we talk
 about this at our live events.
 You've taught on this before with our company and clients, how can we define?
 How can we understand mission and vision?
 Let's start there and define our topics before we get too far into the answer part.
 Yeah.
 That'd be great thing to do because these are often confused.
 So mission is simply why you exist.
 It is your purpose for existence.
 Vision is where we're going.
 It's a destination.
 Vision isn't supposed to just be this lofty thing.
 Vision isn't supposed to be your mission.
 Your mission shouldn't be your vision according to our rules, but you can take them or leave them.
 But simply put, mission is why you exist in your purpose and then everything else should align with it,
 especially your vision and where you're going.
 Vision can be where something that's about the end of the week, let's be here, X-Marx
 to Spot.
 That's a vision.
 It can be a five year vision.
 It can be a one year vision.
 You can have a company vision.
 You can have a vision for your culture, for your processes, for your strategies, for your
 self-esteem.
 It's always about clearly defining the destination and where we're going.
 Yeah, I love that.
 And, you know, for a lot of companies, your mission statement and that reason, the purpose that
 you exist in the first place could have been why you started the business, why you came on board
 and that business great.
 But what we're talking about today is how to help your team own the vision.
 This is where they're role, they're KRA, the tasks that they perform, all of that is like
 rowing that boat.
 It's helping that move that ship forward towards the destination.
 And that's why we're talking about this topic this way, how to help your team own the
 vision.
 Because we want these people on board and everybody's, Chris, and I have joked before
 her about the quote from Godfather.
 I won't mention which one because a lot of people don't think that that third movie
 is actually part of the trilogy.
 But all that to say, we want our ships all heading in the same direction as one of the quotes
 is.
 And that's what we're talking about here.
 If you've got a team member that's not aligned, misaligned, not on board with your vision,
 it's obvious they're rowing in a different direction.
 And a little word play here, there could be a row that develops, you know, a schism,
 so to speak.
 We want people on board.
 We want not just as one person says butts and seats, we want people on board the right
 seat on the bus heading in the same direction.
 And also it's a sense of fulfillment for your team members to know that they are contributing.
 And again, go back to our KRA episode.
 Chris and I dealt with this a few weeks ago, we got really deep into the heart of why we
 do KRAs and not just job descriptions.
 This is going to help towards getting your team towards that vision that you're trying to go
 to.
 That's exactly right.
 I love your, I love how many ship and naval analogies we had in like in a minute of
 fun.
 We want people on board on board, on board, on ship, rowing in the boat, on their direct
 rowing.
 We need to write.
 We need to all be aboard all aboard.
 So when we come back, what you can do as a leader to
 involve your team and the vision to the point where you're going to achieve it all together
 right after this break.
 Hey, leaders.
 This is Joel Fortner, VP, a leadership development at Chris Lcaro's company.
 I have some questions for you.
 Do you as a leader feel like you are caught up in a crazy cycle of stress and task that never
 ends week to week?
 Do you ever have to deal with tough conversations with team members and you sit at home the
 next day, the night before worry about how's it going to go?
 What am I going to say?
 What are they going to say?
 Can I think fast enough on my feet?
 Is it going to be a total failure?
 Are you experiencing culture problems or that stuff that just breaks down trust and unity
 on your team?
 Well, if you can relate to any of this, this is a pretty typical leadership story in situation.
 Here's the thing though.
 It doesn't have to be that way and we can help you solve these things.
 We can help you become the leader that solves these problems and leads 13 to greater success.
 I want to introduce you to the key leaders program.
 This is an ongoing leadership development program that gives you the less-entrak, coaching
 and accountability you need to become the leader you can become to actually implement what you're
 actually learning in this program.
 Things fall apart without great leadership and intentionality.
 If you want to solve the problems that are holding you back from being a great leader, we can
 help you with this program, get in touch, joy, Chris LaCordo.com.
 Well welcome back, welcome back.
 So we are talking about vision and in particular, we're talking about how to get your team
 to own it, to row with you.
 We're going to use a lot of ship and naval analogies apparently today, which is really fun.
 Inside jokes going on here, I was in the Navy once upon a time as a young man.
 I was never on a boat though.
 Funny enough, I actually tried to be in the Navy.
 I failed the math portion of the military flight aptitude exam by one point.
 If I would have passed it, I would have gone on.
 I would have gone on.
 I'm the Logan.
 I'm not the tough one.
 How would your call sign be?
 Or maybe that's a different podcast, but I would love to know.
 Probably something like pancake or French toast or something really lame and something like
 that probably not.
 It would have been yummy exactly.
 So we're talking about vision and how to get your team to buy it and how do you get them
 to own it and where we have unity around vision.
 Because vision clearly communicated vision is one of the elements of creating unity in your team.
 That's why we have clearly communicated mission and vision and core values and culture because
 these things are meant to bind your team.
 They're meant to unify decision making where we're all rowing in the same direction, we're
 all moving in the same direction.
 And it's not as easy though, it's just saying, here we go.
 Okay, let's just go.
 We're not row but people have got to be led in different ways than that.
 That's what we're getting into today.
 So to make an easy example, to put a little meat on the bone here, as I'd say, look at our
 company, Brian.
 And we look at our mission is that we worship God by guiding individuals and businesses to
 greater perspective.
 That's what we do.
 That's our mission.
 That's why we exist.
 So then we see, okay, what's our vision that needs to align with that?
 We have a vision of changing lives.
 We have a vision of providing products and services that change lives.
 That's we have a vision that's about the point main mission.
 Now it's going to be even more merging with the vision of the ridge and the farm up there
 of farm-to-table food, a beautiful healing environment in a country setting.
 It's going to be merging these two missions and still this beautiful, shepherding
 point main mission that we have, but it's a new vision.
 And so the team is working toward that every single day of taking care of our customers, where
 we are able to get even more so we can grow the team and take care of more people.
 These are all elements of our vision.
 And then what we have to get into now, once we see alignment there, is that we then have
 back out of that into all the strategies that we have in the company that help us to live
 out the mission and get to the vision.
 So this is how all of this plays in.
 So we can see because we've clearly articulated why we exist and where we're going, we can ask
 ourselves, are we doing that?
 There should never be a, "Huh, that's a good question.
 I'm not really sure are we doing that or not?
 Especially leaders don't let that be you.
 You don't ever be in a place where you've lost sight of your mission and vision where you
 can't look into your team and see the evidence.
 You should always be able to see the daily activity in your business and be able to know,
 are we executing the mission correctly?
 And then for today's context really, is the team bought into the vision and are we actually
 moving toward accomplishing that vision, executing it as a unified team?
 Yeah.
 No, it's so important.
 You know, when people come on to, like you have been on numerous different teams, businesses,
 and a part of groups where there is a mission statement, why this group exists.
 And there's an attractive element to that at the beginning, especially where you go, "Yeah,
 I could get on board to use that again.
 This is something I could be a part of.
 I want to feel like I'm part of something bigger than myself.
 I want to feel like I'm doing some good."
 And I want to enjoy the work that I do where the vision comes into play is my particular role.
 And I'm looking at this from the vantage point of a team member.
 I want to know that I'm contributing on a daily basis to seeing the results.
 And this is where vision and seeing are tethered together.
 I want to help the company see the results of those transformed lives.
 I want to know that my work matters.
 And it matters to the reason that we exist.
 So those are, you know, inextricably linked and related, but specifically the team members
 are going to have more to do on a daily basis with the vision than they are the mission
 in general.
 Because that existed well before they showed up.
 But like you said, vision can be changed.
 It can be nuanced.
 It can evolve.
 If there's leaders that come together and they decide that they want to add or morph parts
 of that, that's totally fine.
 But it needs to be the standard by which we guide.
 And it needs to be something that we can look to that helps us answer these questions of,
 you know, every decision in other words is going to either be said, yes, it aligns with
 the vision and where we're going and our team members.
 And we're going in that same direction.
 We've got folks that are on board to help us get there or no, that's really outside the scope
 of perhaps why we exist.
 I hope you're not even considering that.
 But you might have decisions to make that you have to decide.
 You know, that's really not our vision right now.
 And so we're going to say no to that thing.
 And so it's a delineating element.
 It helps us clarify where we're going.
 But it also gives again for the team member.
 It gives him buy in to be able to go, you know what, this job, I might be, I don't know, you
 know, take somebody on our team like a Katherine, we mentioned her on the podcast all the time.
 If you're listening Katherine, hi, I'm sure cooking.
 But you know, one thing that she does, she takes really good care of us and our clients.
 So that we can fulfill that mission, her role or the the or in her hand on the boat and
 how she's how she's growing the effort that she's giving is in unison.
 And we have that standard of can we see at the end of an event at the end of a coaching call,
 at the end of a podcast, at the end of, you know, our next level, leadership, live event coming
 up next April.
 Can we see at the end of that that people's perspective has been changed, grown, their vision
 is enlarged, they're impacted in a way they're inspired, they're informed, all of that coming
 to bear on that transformation.
 And no matter how small the role, it's pivotal to the the team getting and accomplishing that
 vision.
 So it's every part's integral is the point.
 Yeah, totally.
 I love that I love what you're bringing up here because we're talking really about alignment,
 we're talking about alignment, we're talking about unity.
 So we're talking about results and that's where I love the power of defining things, the power
 to use your words, up to linear things because it provides clarity.
 And let's people know what are the results that I'm after, what should what should living
 out the, or accomplishing the vision look like in my role every day in or Catherine or you
 or any, any of your team members, leaders, can they see the results, the fruits of their labor
 that they can see how it is in alignment with the vision of where we're going.
 So what we're trying to produce as leaders is think about this kind of like a hierarchy, if
 you will, take a sheet of paper and write mission at the top.
 That's why we exist.
 And then we're going to be a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit
 like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a little bit more like a
 like this. This is how strategies are goals. This is how we're going to live out the mission and get to the vision.
 And then draw a whole bunch of boxes representing your team. And in those boxes, write your leaders at the top.
 And then write the team members under the leaders. And then write KRAs.
 You'll be able to visually see is alignment. And do I have it today where I can see the alignment and how everything connects from the mission to the vision to the strategies to the team.
 And the KRAs that they execute every single day are in now.
 Think about all that you have to lead communicate and hold accountable to keep that ship together.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 And then you can see that the ship is moving forward.
 This is why this is why this matters.
 This is why what you're doing matters.
 And I think, you know, if we're going to try to really look behind that question,
 the question behind the question on how to help your team own the vision is really,
 you're wanting to bring them to a place where they understand how valuable their contribution is.
 And that's, you know, we've talked about care days before,
 listen again to our episode that we just did a few weeks ago about why why do I need more than just,
 why can't I just use a job description? Why do I need more than that? This is why it helps to incorporate every action.
 And even the culture, every attitude, things that go on in our business on a repeating cycle.
 It factors into whether or not we're going to be successful actually getting to accomplish the vision that we're all after.
 But as a team member, I want to know and the and your team members, leaders, your team members want to know that what they're doing matters.
 And how do we do that? We have a care A and we set up that vision.
 We rehearse it consistently and clearly so that they know every action is producing the outcome that we need to see in order to win as a team.
 Any thoughts on that before we go into the practical stuff?
 No, let's get into these questions.
 All right. Well, so self assessment here. And and some of this is going to be so simple. It's not going to seem profound, but you're going to have to really absorb here.
 I think what we're trying to get across do you have a good relationship with your team. Oh my gosh, how basic.
 But how important you're never going to have a team that owns your vision.
 And if you don't have a good rapport with them and if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss here, if you're not.
 And if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss, if you're not doing certain things that
 And if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss here, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss here, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss here, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss here, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss here, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss here, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss here, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss here, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss here, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss here, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss here, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss here, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss here, if you're not doing certain things that we're about to discuss here, if you're not doing certain things that
 But in that it's not in an effort to place blame and shame someone.
 It's in a way to lift them up. And we do that by revealing what happened.
 How did it happen? What went wrong? What do we need to change or fix so that we don't see that repeated again?
 And so we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 And then we're going to have to do that.
 But this, you know, these tasks, these roles, these care, raise, they're all lending themselves to seeing that result to seeing live transform in that very way.
 And so in that factors in, it's a great segue to point number two is your vision compelling.
 Does it inspire and attract people?
 You know, again, we can have that mission, which is why the boat exists to begin with.
 But then if I put people in the boat, where we all going together,
 and is, is there something inspirational and driving that, you know, every person using their strength, leveraging their role, fulfilling their care,
 is in order to get us down to that destination of where we're going.
 And so ask yourself, does it inspire?
 Does it, is it attractive to people?
 And it doesn't have to be flower, but it has to be crystal clear, as we've said,
 it has to be communicated consistently, and it has to be something that, you know, you get out of bed thinking, okay,
 I just have a smaller role, maybe I'm just this or I'm just that, but I'm helping to achieve X.
 And you know, it's like for everybody on our team, we know, and when we come back around on a staff meeting on a Monday morning and we talk about,
 hey, how did this event go? Or what happened here? Or what were the comments from that?
 And we hear that people's lives are being changed.
 I know that my rowing on the boat, or Catherine knows, or Dakota knows that what we've contributed, helped us get there.
 And that's inspiring, that's compelling.
 And I think that has to be something that we factor into writing in our vision in a way that inspires any comments on that?
 Yeah, exactly, is that it's such a motivator for people when they have a compelling vision.
 They have something that is more of a emotionally charges them up, that motivates them to come to work to put in the effort every single day,
 even if they're having a bad day, and every single company can have a compelling vision.
 It just takes and work to be able to come up with the words, to craft it.
 That's where it's like in, in like mastermind program. That's, we, that we help leaders and owners do that.
 It's helped you actually walk through the perspective gaining questions and come and talk through,
 iterate back and forth, like where am I going to help you clarify that vision?
 Because that's what leadership is about.
 Leadership is about leading people to a vision.
 If you're not leading, or if you, if you want to know if you're leading, as we say around here, turn around.
 If no one's behind you, they're not bought into your vision. You're just on a walk.
 And you're going to end up at the destination by yourself or really you're never going to end up at the destination because you need your team to actually help you get there.
 So come up with what are the words and then is it compelling? Is it inspiring?
 Well, again, I'm just a land survey. I'm just a manufacturer. I'm just a whatever.
 It's no, it's like you're limiting your belief. You're limiting your thinking. If that's what you tell yourself.
 Anyone can come up with a compelling vision and think about that. If you're walking around as an owner or a leader thinking, well, I'm just what's your team thinking.
 You're probably the most motivated person to do your business and to do your job and to do your mission.
 Think about my gosh. Well, if that's my that's my mindset. What's my team's mindset that I'm paying every day to do this job because usually it's going to be worse than yours.
 And so this is like gosh, this may be really tough to hear of what Joel is saying right now, but this is the stuff that we see. This is why when we step up and we become the leader that we actually can.
 We can get beyond our limited beliefs. We can get on by on lies that we tell ourselves we can get beyond some stinking thinking.
 We actually can get to where we need to be as a leader and now truly start leading people in a better way in a more compelling way that causes people to want to stay on your team and continue to row the boat with you for a long time.
 And that's a great segue into point number three. Do you model are you modeling your vision in your behavior and in your language and you know, and that's not to say, okay, well, this is the CEO or this is the owner.
 And this is the president and so of course, in their role, they're modeling, you know, the vision. No, we're talking also about how we're communicating the vision consistently and clearly to our team.
 And we're writing them into we've set up those KRAs. There's a myriad of things that as a leader like Joel was just saying we you were you were saying that we leverage our position we leverage our in influence and our enthusiasm and our resources to help the team get to that place where they're going to be functioning and contributing to the vision.
 And all of that is is a is a kind of modeling where we're helping each other along the way get to a place of high functionality and so as a leader if I see somebody who's maybe not rowing.
 And I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the things that I'm going to play some of the
 We can get there that's part of that modeling and inspiring and you know, we we can't overstate the next one point number four enough. How are you communicating it and again, that's just kind of a pause and reflect moment of okay am I communicating how am I communicating it and how often am I communicating it I was part of a church plant years ago.
 And we had people from all over a different community coming together and we were meeting at a show needs up in Madison I don't know if you know you know we're Madison is way north Nashville.
 And we were talking about how we're modeling it where is it tangible if somebody walked into your company could they see what you're about maybe it's all about that kind of thing.
 Where where is it tangible if somebody walked into your company could they see what you're about maybe it's obvious well we're painters or we're a plumber where this we're that sure.
 The vision that you have well we want to make the finest looking you know color buildings in town or whatever that is or you know we we want you know seamless service going where there's low stress and and people are are you know they feel that there needs to be taking care of whatever that vision is for your company could they could somebody from the outside walk in and kind of pick up clues that that's actually happening.
 And so this communication goes beyond just in words it's it's about that modeling it's written into everything it's rehearsed often it's clear but it's also that you're setting them up you're setting up your team for success.
 They've got that right care a they're in the right seat on the bus with the right skill set and so everything is geared towards their success any comments before we go to the last point on that.
 You know it's we used to talk about this all the time is that the number one problem we see in every business is a lack of high levels of quality communication.
 And that's what we're talking about here that so many leaders will think sometimes oh yeah I talk about that all the time I share the vision all the time.
 And then you ask the team and they will be like I have no idea what it is I don't remember the last time I heard it or if they're told it they'll be like oh yeah that's right.
 And we talked about that last summer but to some of the leaders or the owner that leaders we can be blinded or we can think that we're doing a better job communicating this stuff than we are or we can reality there's a disconnect there and you don't know it.
 And you don't even know it that's why getting feedback from your team producing a culture that doesn't have fear surveying your team to get feedback or invaluable tools.
 But it's don't be be blinded by that go and ask your team what the vision is be vulnerable be willing to fail if they can't tell you see it as a okay I just need to do a better job communicating it.
 But you've got to be able I love I love like some of the things I've been thinking about as you were talking Brian it's like well the man or the tone of which you communicate the vision.
 Is that do you sell it.
 Do you seem excited about it because if you don't seem excited about it why the heck is your team going to be excited about it or why would you get upset with them because they're not they're not super bought into it you're the one who sets the tone.
 I love that in it it says this up for this final point and we've actually already dealt with this to a degree I'd like to flesh it out a little bit more as we as we sum up and wrap up the call.
 Are you actively solving obstacles to achieving that vision and some of these obstacles are a lack of high quality communication you've got to solve that you've got to fix that you know as as we as we said.
 Consistent and clear communication when it's present it's it's oil in the gears things are going to go at a level of smoothness and success but when it's not present things begin to break down it becomes very painfully obvious like not having oil in your engine.
 You're going to notice that it's not there that's a huge obstacle to achieving the vision you may have to reorder things in the hierarchy in the structure I want to go back to that image you're painting about.
 You know setting this kind of this triangle this hierarchy out on a page and you start with the mission why do we say why does the boat exist if we're trying to fill up the boat with people who are rowing why does it exist in the first place in the vision where we all rowing to get to.
 What do you want to see produced what's the destination look like because if I don't know that destination I don't know for a winning and you know some of these KPIs we talked about that in another episode as well in addition to the KRA these results that were after.
 And to know when we're having success is so vital to your team owning the vision if they don't know if that's not clear of how their role and every action and their their good high performance affects us getting.
 And then success into that destination to fulfilling that vision then there's going to be a lack of motivation there's going to be a disconnect whether you sense it or not there's going to be a disconnect for them and you know that is a huge obstacle what what are some other obstacles that come to mind that we need to solve.
 Yeah, one of the biggest obstacles that leaders face is a lack of capacity to achieve the vision. So when I say.
 When I say capacity it could be leadership crazy cycle which could be your own personal capacity is limited and you can't lead it or you have to ask the questions what is are your resources capacity yourselves capacity your marketing capacity your operations capacity your HR capacity your financial capacity.
 We can't achieve a vision if we don't have answers to those questions. So we have to dig in because that's where many of the obstacles are there though at Joel you know what's the struggle this is where we're trying to get or in a strat plane with Chris this is where we're trying to get we can't get there we have to get into what's holding this back so then we start to peel the layers back and we can see you don't have capacity that you need in certain areas of your boat.
 In your business. So where we need to do when you need to strengthen those areas we need to solve what's holding back in those areas we need to read the vote resources and reallocate resources to those areas.
 We've got to improve communication here clarity here KRAs and accountability here we're not solving conflict and we're avoiding tough conversations over here or we're not motivating ourselves people in the right way or our marketing strategy is not working at all.
 So we have to be able to figure out what is our capacity to achieve the vision because that's where again that's where we solve a lot of the obstacles then we put in this this strategy to go and solve all those obstacles in order to get the capacity that we need.
 Sometimes it's just decision making capacity because sometimes it's like it's fun to be visionary and entrepreneurial and be like here's a new opportunity let's tackle it.
 And the other team is over here saying or your other leaders are saying well well we can't get there like we could land that deal but we can't fulfill it well well then it's frustrating to the entrepreneur the owner and it's like well why can't we.
 It comes in emotional thing and now we're not unified and we're now moving in two different directions because our decision making capacity may be.
 I'm too opportunistic and I want to jump on this opportunity to grow in this revenue and that's maybe my own decision making weakness.
 Now I'm not saying don't evaluate and figure out how could we actually take on a big growth or scaling opportunity that actually is an alignment with our vision.
 But if we don't have the capacity to do it we're going to stretch the team and the business until it breaks in numerous places we're going to miss out on the opportunity and then we have to go back and patch all of these big problems and then we'll look up in three years and be able to get back on the highway again just change our logistics.
 Or logistics knows a little bit will jump from water to land.
 Now we've got to rebuild everything because our decision making capacity isn't where we needed it to be.
 Man that that's so powerful there's so much here I think we could we could go on another hour talking about all this I I just want to say kind of in summing up here and concluding our thoughts.
 You know leaders vision and clearly again communicating your vision with consistency is one of the most unifying activities.
 This is not beneath you this is your role as a leader to tell those who are following you where we're going.
 This is one of the the most unifying activities and exercises that you can perform for for yourself and for your business for your team you know and here's the deal if your team can't see how they're connected to the vision.
 They'll be reluctant to do their part it won't make sense to them and they won't help you achieve it it's so so important man.
 Joel thank you for for spending this time these are supposed to be shorter episodes but man there's so much here this could be a whole lesson at an event.
 We I think hopefully this is really valuable to you guys sorry it wasn't short we didn't we we felt to meet that expectation that we set but hopefully it's been super valuable for you.
 All right guys well that's all the time that we have for today I hope this information has helped you and can't wait to talk to again the next time Joel it was great to see your illustrious face.
 Thank you so much and and guys and back at your brining guys again Brian jokingly said I think in the last episode as the last one brought you said you weren't going to try to do Chris is sitting at your clothes.
 I will just tell if I'm not going to do it either but there was one time I was on the show and I did the clothes and I and I accidentally said you know take your business.
 You know it's like take you know like what I say take off your shirt or something like something totally messed it up.
 That's why we don't do it we can't nail it.
 We learn from our failures and mistakes that's right.
 Absolutely.
 But we hope you guys got a lot out of this episode and hope you all have a fabulous day.
 [Music]