 Lead people with dignity and you get incredibly productive team members, leave them with fear,
 and you get paralyzed office decorations.
 How to lead your team when they're familiar, that is coming up next.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 Today we are talking about failure.
 Have we ever talked about failure before on the show?
 I don't know, this might be anything, huh?
 For those of you that have been with us long enough, then you understand that I believe
 failure is a great tool.
 I believe you should embrace failure.
 Not fail in.
 I believe a zig used to say that failure is an act, not a person.
 It's a thing that happens.
 There are some, as I do my air quotes, there are some thought leaders out there that are
 constantly promoting that failure is not an option.
 I will tell you that is ridiculous.
 That is not a healthy way of thinking.
 Failure is not only an option, but failure is inevitable.
 It's going to happen.
 It's going to happen.
 Failure is going to happen.
 It's going to happen.
 I don't remember who said it, but I think the saying was if you don't want to be criticized,
 do nothing, say nothing, and be nothing.
 If you don't ever want to fail at anything, do nothing, say nothing, be nothing.
 Because that way, that's the only way you're going to make sure you don't have any big
 failures.
 And really, even in that it's failure, right?
 It's circular.
 Because if you don't live life, then you've failed at living life.
 So no matter what, you are not getting away from failure.
 It's going to happen.
 Just trust that and take a different tact on how you see failure.
 Now for me around here, I expect my team to fail.
 I expect people to fail.
 If they're not failing, that means they're not doing enough.
 They're not pushing hard enough.
 They're not taking enough risk.
 That means that they're failing at doing their job correctly, because there's no way they're
 giving it 100%.
 So for me, I expect people to fail.
 We have a saying around here.
 It's okay to fail as long as it's not a federal failure.
 The deal is, don't fail at the same thing twice.
 Because if you do, now we've got to figure out why you didn't solve this the first time.
 What happened?
 So, as a leader or a business owner, it can be incredibly frustrating if you don't know
 how to deal with it correctly.
 It's possible that you're going to instill fear in your responses or give no consequences whatsoever.
 So either way, you're not solving the problem and the failure will probably be repeated.
 What you're by the way is the definition of insanity, right?
 Doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result.
 So are you experiencing that in your leadership?
 Are you experiencing that your responses either instill fear or your responses come with zero
 consequences whatsoever?
 Are you responding the same way to failure and watching mistakes get made over and over again.
 Today, we're talking about how to get a different result and to understand failure and lead
 when there is failure.
 Now even as leaders and business owners, we bring our personal life and what we call our root
 system into our work in leadership.
 That's why today's episode is brought to you by next level life.
 Do you ever find yourself feeling frustrated, discontent, stuck in the same old stuff and
 never moving forward?
 And it's not just affecting you, it affects your work, your team, your relationships as well.
 It's just frustrating.
 What if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose?
 What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict?
 Where would you be in five years if you had clarity, purpose and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today.
 I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself, is this what the rest
 of my life is going to be like?
 There is a better way.
 And it starts with next level life.
 You can go to crissacrittle.com/discover to take the next step.
 Next level life is a two-day personal discovery experience.
 It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you get
 unstuck and life to improve relationships.
 And discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace.
 Don't keep going through the motions every day.
 Go to crissacrittle.com/discover and take the next step for a better future.
 Now let's get back to talking about failure.
 In a great book, I know a bunch of you have probably taken strengths finder 2.0.
 Author Tom Rath talks about how most parents when seeing their child's report card of
 all A's and 1D would totally focus on the bad grade.
 And I believe if I remember correctly, I believe the percentage is like 74% of parents
 would focus on the bad grade.
 Why?
 Because we aren't failures here in the United States.
 Here in a Western culture, we can't be failures.
 We can't think that way.
 Even if it's not the child's strong suit.
 In other words, if their child was an incredibly talented artist but was struggling in English,
 instead of pushing toward their talent, they would focus more on the weakness.
 One of the story's Tom Rath points out in the book is the story of Rudy.
 For those of you that are old enough to remember the movie, Rudy, it's about a guy who worked
 his butt off.
 Got into Notre Dame and got to be on the practice team for Notre Dame football team.
 That worked, but I mean, got his butt kicked.
 A smaller guy just got pummeled for years, right?
 And finally, right before he graduates, he gets to go in for two plays.
 I believe it is and he gets one sack and gets carried off the field.
 Everybody's super excited about it.
 When you're watching that movie, you can't help but get a little tear in the eye.
 You've got the emotion of what this kid went through.
 One of the things that Tom points out in the book is what a colossal waste of four years.
 This was not a talent of his that he should have been focused on.
 Now praise God, somebody came up with the movie because then he got to speak in clear afterwards.
 But that was not his talent.
 He could have been focusing on his talent, which was in something else.
 I don't know what it was.
 But if he focused on that, then he could become a considerable success afterwards, right?
 But we love the underdog.
 We love the story of the guy who spends four years to have two plays in a game.
 Right?
 That's what we love.
 Now if you take somebody else who was, I believe, going to Notre Dame at the same time,
 the best quarterback in history, Joe Montana.
 I know some of you disagree with that.
 That's okay.
 You know, he's going there at the same time and look at his outcome, right?
 Total use of his talent.
 That was a great use of his talent.
 So that's one example.
 A second example is me.
 There are things I have learned about myself.
 Am I early days when I was young, I tried to do everything.
 I tried to be everything.
 If there was something that needed to be done, I was going to do it.
 And I was going to try and do it.
 The best it could possibly be.
 There's something I have discovered along the way.
 I am not somebody who is great at administrative stuff.
 There's a great number of things that it takes me about four, five, ten times longer than
 somebody who's talented in that area.
 I learned early on to surround myself with people who are talented where I'm weak.
 Surround myself with people who are strong, where I am not.
 That's why you'll find when you come here.
 I have administrative people doing things that I just get do that well.
 Why?
 Because I know that I'm never going to be created doing that.
 And something that takes me four hours takes Andrea 30 minutes.
 So there's no point me losing four hours on something when I can get her to focus on her
 talents and her strengths.
 So as I look at it, I see failure is one of our greatest teachers.
 I learned early on by failing in areas that those weren't my talents.
 I learned early on that I could actually get rid of the responsibility of doing something that
 I'm not talented in and put somebody else in that role who strives in it.
 Who thrives in it.
 So for me, fear is one of our greatest teachers.
 Without it, we have to trust that we know everything to be successful in every situation.
 The truth is we just don't.
 We flat don't.
 When I see leaders in team members who carry the same broken belief system of no failure, I
 usually find it's because they have been held to the same impossible standards by somebody
 in their past as well.
 That there's been somebody as a leader or an example for them that has had that same belief
 system failures, not an option.
 But it's just not true.
 Failure isn't the problem.
 Failure is a part of life.
 It's the fear of failure that jacks a person up.
 For more on overcoming fear of failure, go to episode 20 and we'll link it in the show notes.
 And again, if you have not discovered this about the iPhone app, just take the picture and
 slide it up then all the information is down below that.
 So that is a great episode on overcoming fear of failure.
 Now here's what I'm talking about.
 You can front the team member on a mistake and they shut down or get defensive or if there's
 fear of failure, your team is going to fear sticking their neck out and even won't give 100%.
 This happens all the time.
 I'm always helping leaders to discover that when you treat your team members in a threat of
 anger, then what happens is that they drop down to the amount of productivity necessary
 to get their data.
 So they're not giving 100%.
 They're not taking risks.
 They're not sticking their neck out.
 Now some of you might think, well, I don't necessarily want them to take risks, then you have
 not learned from me about leadership.
 I want my team members taking risks.
 I want them pushing it.
 I want them doing everything they can to make your life better.
 I want them busing their butts to make your business better, to make your leadership better.
 I don't want these guys working at 50%.
 I want them busing it taking risks.
 When they take risks, I don't have to.
 No, I'm taking a risk on them taking risks.
 I don't have to be the one who is in control of everything.
 I don't have to be the one who comes up with everything.
 So by them taking risks, they get reward.
 They also get failure.
 The difference is how ideal with the failure compared to most people.
 So if somebody is afraid of getting their head cut off and we see this all the time, especially
 in stratplans where we help leaders to see how their people respond.
 If they're afraid of getting their heads ripped off, then you can literally watch them shut down.
 It's happened in many strap lines.
 It's great for the leader to see it because they're like, "I had no clue that that's what
 I was doing."
 It could be any leader on the team that's doing that.
 But when they see that, it is this great fantastic painful aha moment that helps them
 to see, I'm actually shutting down the productivity of my team or even my leaders.
 That's ridiculous.
 Oh yeah, so we help them on how to solve that.
 So weekly action items, things that you can start right now.
 Things that you can do right now in your leadership.
 The first thing is, lead people with dignity and you get incredibly productive team members.
 Lead them with fear and you get paralyzed office decorations.
 Here's how to have the conversation with a team member who is fearing failure.
 If you could get yourself as a leader past the place of not wanting your team members to fail at all,
 and again, we don't want them to fail.
 It's not that I want team members to fail and make mistakes.
 It's that I know it's going to happen.
 How can I get them to learn from it so it's not a fear?
 Does that make sense, guys?
 I don't want my team members fearing failure.
 I want them to go, "Yep, screwed that up.
 How do I fix that?"
 I want through the whole process that I tell you that the five steps.
 What happened?
 How did it happen?
 Why did it happen?
 How do we fix it?
 How do we make sure it never happens again?
 I don't want them to be afraid of failure.
 I want them to have a healthy sense of, "Hey, make sure that you're putting your all into this
 thing so you don't screw it up because you weren't putting your all into it."
 That's a world difference from being afraid to fail.
 The first thing that I do, if I'm going to lead a team member by having a conversation
 with them about fearing failure and trying to get them out of that fear, the first thing I'm
 going to do is ask them, "Now, I'm going to gain perspective."
 So what is it that you're fearing?
 What is it that you're afraid of?
 What is the thing that you're experiencing in this moment?
 What is going through your head?
 What are the lies that you're telling yourself right now?
 What are those things that you keep telling yourself?
 Now you have to understand.
 If you have an incredibly protective person on your team, then a lot of times the heads are
 going to be "I'm not afraid of anything."
 By the way, if you ever come in and do an event, whether it's a next-level life or a strat
 plan or anything, as we go through the process, one of the tools that I use is watching your
 body language.
 Joel watches your body language.
 My team has learned how to watch people's body language because it gives us information.
 It helps us to see what somebody is experiencing in the moment so we can adjust.
 If somebody is really stressed out, we can soften up.
 If somebody is really fearful, we can change our approach.
 It helps us to see what somebody is going through.
 An amazing thing is going through a strat plan and watching somebody literally have the words
 coming out of their mouth.
 I had one leader during one of the events that the words coming out of our mouth were "I'm not
 afraid of anything."
 And when you looked under the table, you could see her whole legs were going ballistic and
 she was ringing your hands.
 That's so in that moment I'm like, "Hey, so help me to understand.
 Let's take a look at what you're doing with your hands right now.
 Do you feel like the response is aligning with what you're saying?"
 And she was like, "No, of course not.
 Okay, it's okay to be honest.
 It's okay.
 I am not going to look at you and think less of you because you are afraid of something because
 you are struggling with something.
 If I do, then guess what?
 I'm a crappy leader.
 I'm not a good leader.
 If I'm sitting here judging you because you're struggling with something and because you're
 afraid of failing in an area, then that would be ridiculous because in order to do so would
 be to say, "I never struggle with that."
 And guys, that's just not true.
 Especially my younger part of my life, I struggled with fear failure a lot.
 I didn't want to screw things up.
 The great thing is, is I learned how to change that and how to really take a look at failure
 as a teacher instead.
 So discover what the thing is that they're fearing.
 What are they specifically feeling?
 Well, I'm afraid that if I don't get this right, then it affects everybody.
 Okay, great fear.
 That's really legit.
 Let's talk about that.
 Or, I'm afraid that if I screw this up, you're going to be really pissed off at me.
 Oh, okay.
 Is that what I've done in the past?
 Have I done that with you before?
 You know, and guys, you might find out that you have.
 You might find out that people are afraid of you as a leader.
 But what great perspective, I mean, you've failed.
 Let's fix this sucker, right?
 Next thing I want to do is I affirm them.
 So when you're leading somebody in something that is personal, you can't bonk him or her over
 the head instead, try to affirm them in that moment.
 This is something that I have absolutely loved learning from one of my virtual mentors for
 a long time.
 Guy name Ravi Zacharias.
 He's an apologetic and just a talented, intelligent, loving human being.
 And I have followed him for a long time.
 There's so much of his stuff that I've just soaked up.
 And one of the things I absolutely love that he does and he's become an expert at this.
 People that are coming to him are usually coming to him in a lot of anger.
 You know, a lot of times he will do Q and A's on campuses and stuff and his kids are just
 pissed at God.
 And so they attack him and he doesn't attack back and he doesn't defend and he doesn't argue
 or yell or anything like that.
 He affirms.
 And so one of the things that I have learned to do in my leadership is to say something like, hey,
 that's a legit fear.
 I completely understand that.
 I know exactly where you're coming from.
 Hey, I've had that same fear.
 Hey, I've experienced that here.
 Hey, I know what it's like to be afraid of letting the team down.
 I will go into affirming them and I will also utilize examples of my failures.
 There's an amazing thing that happens when people hear Chris failures.
 Right?
 I can't tell you, it's probably been two or three times in events where when I hit a failure,
 somebody verbally out loud has said, I've like about like live events where somebody's
 going, oh, praise God.
 And it's like, what?
 And they're like, it's just good to know that you fail.
 I'm like, are you kidding?
 That's what this whole business is based on as I've learned from my failures.
 And I've had people say, I just, you know, you do things so well.
 Well, I do things well because I've learned from my failures and I put things in place.
 Of course, I fail every single day.
 I make mistakes every single day.
 What a lot of leaders do is they actually try and hide their failures.
 And again, if you've been with me long enough, you've heard me say this.
 Guys, there's no point in hiding your failure failures from your team.
 They already know that you fail.
 Chances are, they already know the failures that you're trying to hide from them.
 It's pointless.
 It's a waste of time.
 It is actually detrimental to hide your failures from your team because they're not going
 to be loyal to you.
 They believe that you can't be honest and you can't actually be aware of yourself.
 So instead, I'll share my failures.
 I'll talk about them.
 Hey, I've experienced this.
 I've done this and it helps them to go, oh, well, if you have, then I guess it's okay.
 That I'm fearing this right now.
 So the next thing I do is I affirm them.
 Third thing I'll do is I'll say something like I totally get where you're coming from.
 Fear failure is huge.
 So while I'm affirming them and hey, I've experienced that, I also want to point out that
 I know where they're coming from.
 Where this fear is coming from.
 Where this is, you know, that piece in their root system that is bringing this up.
 I want them to know I get that.
 I get that you are feeling that way.
 The next thing I do is I dig in.
 Don't assume you know what they're talking about.
 Woo.
 High days, high eyes do not assume.
 And high, high seas as well.
 All personality styles listen to me.
 We all assume that we know what somebody's talking about and we immediately go to that place in
 our head.
 Do not assume you know what they're talking about.
 Be vulnerable and give examples of what you've experienced.
 That helps them to go ahead and be a little vulnerable themselves.
 They can take down some walls or at least take a couple of bricks out of the walls, right?
 And go ahead and be able to talk to you about this thing.
 What is the failure you're afraid of?
 Let's get that question asked.
 Let's get some of that information out.
 If they throw something out there that isn't deep enough.
 This is where we dig in.
 Start asking more questions.
 The question that I will ask over and over again.
 I tell people is they come to the next level of life and strap plan.
 You're going to get to a place where you hate the word "why."
 They will throw something out that is surface level.
 I'll go, "why?"
 And I already know what the answer is.
 This is what I do for a living.
 My goal is to get them to say the answer.
 If they've not gone deep enough, if they've not dug in, then I will continue to ask questions.
 What is that going to crash?
 You haven't solved the problem yet?
 No.
 No, my goal isn't to solve the problem.
 My goal is to solve the bigger issue, the bigger underlying issue.
 So if I just jump in and tell them, "Don't be afraid, go ahead and do this thing and solve
 it for them on the spot."
 Then I haven't solved it the next time.
 My goal is to help them to see why they're afraid of this failure.
 Where is that coming from?
 Trying dig into their root system and discover where is this specific fear coming from?
 So I'll ask why?
 Over and over and over again.
 Until they get to a deeper version.
 If sometimes, it happens.
 Sometimes folks they don't like that question.
 So they'll throw it back on.
 I don't know Chris, you're my leader.
 You're supposed to be able to tell me.
 Do what you want.
 I always respond so it's my fault that you can't come up with the answer.
 So it's very quickly people will go, "Oh, okay, true, right, okay."
 And dig back in again.
 So the goal is to get them to a much deeper understanding of what the fear is.
 Next thing I will do.
 Help them to understand that what they're fearing is not a healthy sense of fear.
 What do I mean by that?
 99 times out of 100.
 I almost 100%.
 The fear has to do with people's opinions.
 The fear has to do with, "Well, what is somebody going to think?
 What is the team going to think?
 What is my leader going to think?
 What is the client going to think?
 Almost every single time the fear that they're experiencing is not healthy.
 It's a fear of unhealthy opinions or unhealthy judgment.
 It's usually not a healthy sense of fear.
 What is a healthy sense of fear?
 When a lion is chasing you, that is a hell.
 If you are afraid of that, that's a healthy sense of fear.
 Get moving or do so.
 That I don't know.
 Don't just stand there.
 That's a healthy sense of fear because something is about to eat you.
 So that would be healthy.
 What is not a healthy sense of fear?
 Gosh, if I mess this up, I bet the whole team is going to think I'm a total loser.
 That is not a healthy sense of fear.
 And if people are judging you, then most likely they're judging you from an unhealthy place
 themselves.
 So help them to understand the difference between a healthy sense of fear and an unhealthy
 sense of fear.
 If somebody is worried about doing something or fearing failure because they're worried about
 how people are going to judge them, shut it down.
 Help them to see what healthy looks like.
 The next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to ask this.
 This is where I jump into the problem solving that I teach you about all the time guys.
 I'm going to ask if I'm there a director or even if I'm not, if this is a discussion I'm
 having with somebody who's afraid of failure, I prefer the directors doing this.
 But if I need to solve a problem right there, I'm going to go through how to solve things.
 The first thing I'm going to ask is what's going to happen if you fail?
 So the thing I'm looking for is to tackle that big fear, especially if it has to do
 with leadership.
 So let's say you fail.
 What am I going to do about it?
 Every single time I ask that here with my team, it's so funny.
 If I have a team member who's struggling with fear failure, I will always go.
 So what am I going to do if you fail?
 And they just kind of blink a couple of times and they go, well, you're going to ask me what
 happened.
 And then what am I going to do?
 You're going to ask me why it happened.
 And then what am I going to do?
 Well, you're going to ask me how it happened, how I can fix it, and how I can make sure
 it never happens again.
 And then what am I going to do?
 And they go nothing.
 To which I will throw a few jokes, that they all go.
 So I'm not going to rip you head off.
 No.
 I'm not going to take your birthday away.
 No.
 So what am I going to do?
 Nothing.
 We're going to get back to work.
 That is one of the most empowering things for a team member.
 I help them to see that if they fail, we're going to walk through the same problem solving
 process that we do all the time, it helps them to feel empowered instead of fearful.
 It helps them to feel like, okay, I got this.
 I can go do this.
 So for me, that's the next place I'm going to go is to help them to understand what's going
 to happen if this does, you know, go south.
 What if this fails?
 Then what?
 The next thing I'm going to do is help them to see that the fear they're living in is all
 based on something that hasn't happened yet.
 Otherwise if it had happened, and we would be having a completely different discussion, but
 they're creating these opportunities to be fearful of stuff that literally has not happened
 yet.
 It's a close-oys the time.
 So I'll ask them, has it happened?
 No, okay.
 So how is this helping you?
 That's a question I asked all the time.
 How is this helping you?
 Well, it's not.
 Well, then why are you doing it?
 Okay, I get your point.
 Yeah, it hasn't happened.
 There is zero point in fearing something that hasn't happened yet.
 When you take a look at Jesus' life, one of the things that I see is he did not actually
 live out the fear of his death until the night before.
 I don't see it anywhere else.
 There's no point he knows what's coming.
 He knows what's going to happen.
 He knows his purpose in life.
 And yet I don't see him walking out this fear every single day.
 It doesn't hit him until the night before.
 Then when he knows, this is happening tomorrow.
 There's no going back or at least even in discussions.
 Is there going back?
 No, there's no going back.
 He doesn't live that out into that moment.
 So being fearful of something that still has not happened yet is a colossal waste of time.
 So don't.
 Don't spend that time on fearing something.
 Until it does happen.
 And if it does happen, okay, walk through the solution problems.
 Also, help them to see what the situations are, where they're fearing failures.
 It at work.
 And they're working with somebody specific.
 What is the thing?
 What is the specific thing?
 Help them to see that piece.
 Next guide them to see what am I feeling?
 What are the thoughts that are going through my head right now?
 If they can recognize and what I tell people is, you know, if you can actually put
 a stamp on this, this is what I was feeling when I had this response or I had this action,
 go ahead and mark that.
 Remember that.
 What am I specifically thinking?
 What are the specific thoughts that are going through my head?
 What you will discover is, most likely, they're lies.
 They're lies that have to do with worth from in.
 They're lies that have to do with people's approval, people's opinions, people's thoughts,
 people's judgments.
 What them to see that, help them to pull specifically the thoughts out, the specifically the things
 that they're saying to themselves, and help them to see where they can get solid, consistent
 worth and use it to battle that fear.
 Now for me, we battle the lies with the truths.
 And then the truth is almost never the opposite of the lie.
 I'm worried about failing on this project.
 Why?
 Because I'm going to let people down.
 What's the actual truth to that?
 The truth is, I'm worried about being judged by people.
 So what should the truth be that you battle with?
 I should not get my worth from man.
 My worth should come from God.
 That's the truth.
 So hey, what are you feeling right now?
 Failing.
 What's the truth?
 So the lie is, is that you're going to let people down.
 What's the truth?
 My worth should come from God.
 So if you're worth should come from God, you should do your work as into him, not them.
 Right?
 Yes.
 Let me favor.
 Go do that.
 What I tell my people here is, if you do your work as into the Lord, I don't ever have to worry
 about you doing your work as into me.
 When you have to do your work as into me, now I have to think about managing you.
 And I don't love doing that.
 Let me lead you to the one who cares way greater about you than I do.
 And do your work as into him.
 If you do that, then you will bust your butt 24/7, right?
 Making him happy, not me happy.
 So those are things that you can do this week, people.
 Those are things that you can do this week.
 Now it's not just for leadership, right?
 Parents, focus on this.
 Do this with your kids.
 You're watching your kids fear failure.
 And guess what?
 So much of that comes from you teaching them.
 So help them to see.
 Be vulnerable with your kids.
 Be vulnerable with your family members.
 Take the mask off.
 Take the bricks out of the wall.
 Help them to see that you experience the same stuff.
 Walk through these different pieces with them and help them to understand how to get over
 that fear of failure.
 Now a big piece of making this process successful is having high levels of quality communication.
 So if you don't know the personality profile of the team member you're communicating with,
 get it.
 If you've not done personality styles for your team, what in the world are you waiting for
 you're missing out?
 Guys, as I've shared many times before, the number one issue when it comes to business is not
 having high quality communication.
 It's not finding money.
 It's not getting more money.
 It's not having one bad apple.
 It is not having high levels of quality communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand the personality styles of the folks you're
 leading in communicating with.
 Go to Chricelcordo.com/store and get personality profiles for your team.
 Get the video that I teach.
 Sit down.
 Have the team members do the profile.
 Then sit down and watch the video together.
 It's 45 minutes.
 It's very funny.
 It's a very great video.
 Sit down and discuss it with your team.
 Get it for your team members today.
 Now folks, you have to set your team up for success.
 Whether they are fearing failure or making mistakes, whatever it is, it is your job as a leader
 to make your team successful, not the other way around.
 Now next week we're dropping an episode on your greatest enemy.
 The enemy that keeps you from the success you could have in business and in life.
 So don't miss that next Tuesday.
 Hopefully this was helpful for you today.
 As always, take this information.
 Change your leadership.
 Change your business.
 Change your life.
 Enjoy this.
 On the next episode.
 (upbeat music)
 [BLANK_AUDIO]