 Our worst enemy, yep, I get your worst enemy on the show.
 That is coming up next.
 (upbeat music)
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardos Show,
 where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do,
 not who you are.
 (upbeat music)
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 Today we are talking about our own worst enemy.
 Now I can tell you this at work and politics
 and in pretty much every single movie you've ever seen,
 we see enemies.
 Yes, it's an easy to see them in the movies
 'cause, well, they're supposed to be there, right?
 It's easy to see them in politics
 and even we will see them at work.
 Sometimes we even see them in our own families, right?
 It's a person who's easy to dislike.
 Someone that's easy to blame,
 especially in movies, we root for the good guys
 and it's easy to spot the bad guys.
 The dictionary defines an enemy as a person who hates
 or opposes another person and tries to harm that person.
 Now let me say that again, a person who hates
 or opposes another person and tries to harm that person.
 Now you may have people or circumstances in your life
 that feel hold you back.
 Sometimes we see that enemies still are happiness
 or sometimes we see that enemies obviously hurt us
 or try to keep us from succeeding
 or oppose you in some way
 or even just trying to make life difficult.
 Now as I'm saying that, my question for you is
 who specifically and how many people are going through your mind
 that you're thinking of that,
 maybe there's somebody that is constantly trying
 to make a life difficult.
 Maybe it's somebody who's not trying to make your life difficult
 but they are making your life difficult.
 Can you think of that person?
 Can you think of the person who steals your happiness?
 Can you think of the person?
 And now here's a deal, we say,
 well you can't actually steal somebody's happiness.
 True, but can you think of the person
 who really affects your happiness in a negative way?
 Can you think of the person who hurts you?
 You probably have a number of people
 you can think in your mind right now
 and how about that person who tries to keep you from succeeding?
 Is that a relative?
 Is that a person at work?
 Is that somebody that you grew up with?
 Is that your leader?
 Gosh, I hope not, but it's very possible, right?
 Is there somebody that you can think of
 that's trying to keep you from succeeding?
 The thing about enemies is
 enemies can keep you from achieving your potential
 and they can be a massive distraction.
 It's easy to point out other enemies in life.
 I've been leading you up to a specific question
 that I want you to ask.
 Don't, don't, don't.
 So as you've thought through all of this,
 here's the question I want you to ask.
 Am I my own worst enemy?
 Am I the one who steals my happiness?
 Am I the one who hurts me?
 Am I the one who's trying to keep me from succeeding?
 Now some of you would think,
 well of course not Chris, nobody does that
 a mile day alone every day.
 Many people self-sabotage in a consistent way
 to constantly keep themselves from succeeding
 because what would happen when they do succeed, right?
 How many times do you oppose yourself?
 And how many times do you make your own life difficult?
 So today we're gonna dig into our you, your own worst enemy.
 I know I am, right?
 Besides Satan, he's definitely my worst enemy.
 But after him, I think I am definitely my own worst enemy, right?
 We're gonna dig into discovering if you are your own worst enemy
 and just how much you are affecting you.
 So stick around to the end
 because we have a resource that will help you take action
 this week.
 So that you're not holding you back.
 Now today's episode is brought to you by next level life.
 Now some of you folks don't even know
 that we help people with more than just their business and leadership.
 Some folks will come to us and they do business stuff
 and they find out we have this life thing.
 I'm like, I've been following you for years.
 I never knew you did something on the life side.
 Of course we do.
 We do business and life leadership business life.
 It all melts together.
 So for those of you who don't know,
 next level life is our two day personal discovery experience.
 It's a one-on-one personalized event
 where we guide you through a process
 to help you get unstuck and life
 and prove relationships and discover what's holding you back
 from freedom and peace.
 Do you ever find yourself asking in life
 is this it or find yourself feeling unfafilled,
 stuck in the same old stuff but never moving forward?
 And it's not just you, it's affecting your relationships as well.
 It's just frustrating.
 What if you could wake up every morning
 with a clear purpose?
 What would it look like to have healthier relationships
 with less conflict?
 Where would you be in five years
 if you had clarity, purpose and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand right now.
 I know it's possible because I've been where you are.
 Standing right there asking myself
 is this what the rest of my life is going to look like.
 There is a better way and it starts with the next level of life.
 You can go to christlacardo.com/discover to take the next step.
 If you're struggling with this contentment, regret,
 or not feeling good enough,
 if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking,
 don't keep going through the motions every day.
 Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace.
 Go to christlacardo.com/discover and take the next step.
 And today we're talking about the steps you can take
 to stop being your own worst enemy.
 Now there's six areas that you may be your own worst enemy.
 There's a lot more than this.
 I just talked to you about next level of life.
 There's a ton of things that we discover next level of life
 where people are their own worst enemy.
 There's things that we're doing to affect us to hurt ourselves,
 to hold us back, to keep us from being successful.
 But I'm going to go through six of the big ones today.
 Six ways that you may be your own worst enemy.
 And as you hear these,
 if you immediately say, no, that's not me. Stop.
 Have an open mind on this because you may discover it actually is you.
 Now, I don't know if everybody has all six of these,
 but there are some that do.
 I would say probably most people have five of these for sure,
 but there's plenty of people that probably have six.
 The first one we're going to start with is procrastination.
 It's common for so many people to procrastinate when it comes to hard
 or difficult decisions.
 The thinking behind it usually comes down to two ways of thinking.
 The first way is I don't make a decision.
 Maybe the whole problem situation, scary opportunity,
 will just go away.
 Sound from out here.
 Obviously, this is a false belief.
 Instead, what tends to happen is that
 more problems stack up on top of the one
 we're currently avoiding and make it even tougher to handle.
 All the time, I help people with this process.
 Where they keep thinking if I just avoid the decision,
 if I just don't do anything about it,
 then surely it's going to go away.
 Folks, if this is resonating with you right now,
 let me tell you, this is a huge piece that's holding you back from success.
 All of these are huge pieces,
 but you don't realize some of the other ones are actually a little bit more obvious.
 Oh, well, yeah, I could totally see how much that's affecting me.
 This one people don't think is hurting them as much as it is.
 They don't realize that by avoiding the problem,
 avoiding the situation, avoiding the scary opportunity that could be a positive thing in your life,
 avoiding the conflict that what you're literally doing is
 shoving something under a rug with all the other things you're avoiding.
 It doesn't actually go away and you hide these that are listening to this.
 You think that you have dealt with something.
 I get that all the time with a high D3 next time.
 Oh, I dealt with that. No, you didn't.
 Oh, you did as blocking out of your mind.
 You compartmentalized it and convinced yourself that you haven't,
 you're done with it. No, you're not.
 It's still there.
 You've got to solve the underlying problem.
 You got to get to the root of why that's there.
 Once you do, then you can truly deal with it.
 But shoving something in a box, shoving something under a rug,
 choosing not to deal with that or even convincing yourself that you have,
 and still not dealing with it does not solve the problem.
 The second thing we think when it comes to procrastination is,
 we believe that it might just work itself out on its own.
 Like it's just going to all of a sudden fix itself.
 You know, the while there's a small chance that will happen.
 That I mean, my new chance, it's definitely not the likely one, right?
 Chances of something working its way out because you avoided it, slim to none.
 Now, many times a conflict or a problem or an opportunity,
 will work its way into a different situation because you didn't deal with it.
 But it almost is never it working its way to a better situation.
 So procrastination tends to be something that we all, even people who say,
 I don't procrastinate. I don't have problem with procrastination.
 You will find that many times in their decision making is procrastination.
 It's the choice to not deal with something.
 Well, if I just let that go, it's going to work its way out.
 So number one area that is holding you back and keeping you from being successful and hurting you.
 Number two, believing lies.
 A foundational piece of next level life.
 Foundational is believing lies.
 One of the greatest breakthrough tools we have in the next level life process is discovering the lies
 that people believe currently.
 Lies that they tell themselves lies that they've been told by family member or friends,
 but they are lies that they are currently believing right now.
 Let's see if you believe any of these. You're not good enough.
 You're never going to succeed like you should.
 You're a failure. You don't deserve fill in the blank.
 You're never right. You're not worthy.
 Hey, it's all your fault. You know that, right?
 These are just a few of the lies that people believe.
 I say people. I lost Pro. Now, now you people, these are lies that we believe. Yes,
 there's lies that tell myself. I just got really good at battling the lies with the truths.
 So you may not realize you're believing a lie. There's a process that we have them right down
 lies and it is a phenomenal revelation to them to actually see what they're telling themselves every day.
 And it's tough. It's really tough. They struggle in that process.
 And it's usually only after we've spent a whole day going through a whole bunch of other things
 that have pointed out the lies that they're telling themselves because it comes out naturally, right?
 So it's a shocker to people that they actually are lying to them themselves.
 But there has never ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever.
 Bannerperson that has come through next level of life that did not have lies that they tell themselves.
 Not a one. So if you're somebody who's listening to this and you're going, "Oh, Chris, I don't
 lie to myself. You're lying to yourself. You're lying to yourself right now. They're in there. Come,
 let me get them out. Let me help you see them. Let me show them to you. You may not realize you're
 believing a lie. If you find yourself getting offended, insecure, hurt, whatever, then that lie
 is the thing that is fueling your response." Now, unfortunately, so many bad decisions can absolutely
 be traced back to the lies that we've been told or that we tell ourselves and we choose to believe.
 A big part of the next level of life is helping people to see their decision-making process.
 Oh, I know how I make decisions, Chris. Okay. Come prove me wrong.
 But everybody who comes through really discovers, really discovers how they make decisions. And unfortunately,
 the lies that they believe is a big part of that process. That's what we help them to discover
 the truths. And like I always say, the truths are almost never the opposite. I mean, just
 so rare that it's actually just the opposite. Right? The truth usually is something else. So if you
 can imagine how much believing lies is holding you back right now, it's considerably more than what you're
 imagining. It's more than you believe. Right? That's why it's so important to discover that you
 are your own worst enemy when it comes to this. The third thing that holds you back is a lack of
 healthy boundaries. Notice I didn't just say boundaries. Many people have boundaries. I believe there
 are walls, boundaries, and healthy boundaries. Walls are those things that you walk people out with
 that nobody can get to you. That's terrible because then you're isolated and that's a terrible
 place to be. Boundaries are those things people think are healthy. They put these boundaries in place,
 but then somebody can just destroy it. Healthy boundaries are the things that keep the unhealthy people
 or situations from getting to you. It can allow all kinds of other people to get to you,
 but it doesn't allow the really unhealthy things or the things that you need to have a healthy boundary
 put in place for it. It doesn't allow that thing to get you even if you have to remove yourself from
 the situation. So many people have boundaries, but since they aren't healthy, they tend to be destructive.
 And I can tell you in so many next level of life that I've done, I have suggested that the
 participate read the book "Boundaries". A great book. Dr. Henry Cloud, it's kind of become chicken soup
 for the soul. I give them the updated version of just the boundaries, the original book, to go through.
 There's all kinds of great stuff, but that's usually a place that I will help them to really gain some
 great information. It is by far one of the biggest issues that we have in our lives. And again,
 it's from a lack of proper leading in this area. When you don't have healthy boundaries,
 you allow people to manipulate you. You allow people to take advantage of you. You allow people to
 abuse you. Now keep in mind. As I'm saying those things, you're not a victim. You are not a victim.
 You are allowing that stuff. Nobody has taught you how to not allow it. That's why our folks are so
 successful after coming through the event because we teach them how to put in healthy boundaries.
 Not continue to allow people to manipulate them, to control them, to take advantage of them, to abuse them.
 Instead, once you put a healthy boundary in place, then you can start healing you. It does not mean
 that boundary stays there. In my early days, I had to put in just huge healthy boundaries on some folks
 so that I could get stronger and I could heal. As time went on, that person didn't change,
 but the boundary didn't have to be so far out. I could move it in, move it in, move it in,
 and allow people who are unhealthy, and especially to me to be closer to me. Because I had healed,
 and I had worked on the things that got me to a place that I didn't have to have this huge
 healthy boundary because I didn't receive the crap. I don't allow people to manipulate me like
 crazy. I don't allow people to take advantage of me. I really don't allow people to abuse me.
 Right, I'm done with that crap. Getting those healthy boundaries in place is huge. So we're going
 to talk about the other three areas that are holding you back. But let me talk to you right now about
 something that you must have for great quality communication. If you've been listening to me for
 any length of time, then you know the number one issue when it comes to business and family,
 when it comes to friendships is having a lack of high quality communication. It all starts with having
 great communication. And the best way to get that communication is to understand personality styles,
 yours, your family members, your team members, those people that you're dealing with on a daily basis.
 And those folks that you are spending the most time with at work or at home. And the best way to do that
 is go to christlacardo.com/store and get personality profiles for you, for your family, for your team.
 Get the video. Take the profiles, sit down, watch the video, discuss it. You will be stunned at how
 much it's going to change your communication. So get it for your family members today. Get it for
 your team members today. As you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways
 to communicate. Go to christlacardo.com/store today and get your personality profiles. Now, back to the other
 three things that are holding you back, which communication that would make that a seven thing,
 because it's something that we so struggle with, quality communication. Number four is feeling
 not good enough. Folks lack of self-worth destroys us. When we don't have a strong sense that we
 are good enough. Now, don't hear me incorrectly on this. I could care less about your self-esteem.
 Self-esteem is something that was created like in the 90s by I think teachers. If I remember that
 correctly, and the focus was on you feel good about you no matter what you do. Guys, listen, if I
 do stupid and I hurt you, I should not have good quality self-esteem. If I'm doing stupid,
 I should not have, I should not be focused on having quality self-esteem.
 So I can care less about your self-esteem. I do care about your self-worth, and I do care about your self-respect.
 Those are the things that are really important to you. If you have an awareness of when you're doing good
 and when you're doing bad, then you could care less about your self-esteem as well. You will focus
 more on yourself and yourself for a bit. So examples, maybe you're always striving at work or
 maybe you're always feeling like you're not a good enough parent. Maybe you're trying to put up a
 front or look put together so people are impressed with you or you're afraid people will think you're
 fraught or impostered. Hey, welcome to life. This belief system is usually passed onto us by parents
 who struggle with the same exact feelings or by controlling our abuse of parents or people in our life.
 There's one thing that you must must, must, know, and that is, you are good enough for God.
 God, hear me when I say this. God loves you right where you are. He just doesn't want to keep you there.
 But where you are, doesn't change his love for you. He loves you. He loves you. He loves you in your
 worst times. He loves you in your best times. His love for you cannot change. It just can't.
 He loves you as much as he's going to love you. It will never be any less that will never be any more.
 But understand for him, you're good enough. If you don't believe that, look at the cross.
 That my friend was for you so that you have the chance of spending eternity with the person who loves you
 more than you've ever experienced from any human being. Now, I'm not saying that you're not going to
 get self-worth from people. I'm telling you that almost all of it, if not all of yourself worth right now,
 is coming from people. And it's not sustainable. It's not sustainable as a parent. It's not sustainable
 as a team member. I'll leader. It's not sustainable as somebody who's a people-pleaser. It's not sustainable.
 When you get worth from somebody, it lasts for about how long. Five minutes. At best.
 Then you gotta go do something else to get people to make you feel good.
 Your God loves you exactly where you are. Just understand he has a much greater plan for your life.
 So when you are feeling not good enough, you have to ask the question for who?
 For who? And some people will lie about this to themselves and they'll say, "Well, tell me."
 Well, then that's just ridiculous. What does that even mean? You're not good enough for you? What does that mean?
 The truth is, you're not good enough for man. And you may never be good enough for man, but you will always be good enough for God.
 He loves you right where you are. He just doesn't want to keep you there. The fifth thing that we do
 that causes us to be our own worst enemy. This one, this one is one that a lot of folks don't realize how bad this is.
 The fifth one is isolation. One of the ways where our own worst enemy is when we isolate our selves.
 Now in my mind, being isolated with your own thoughts can absolutely destroy you.
 Right? Because a lot of times most of the time our thoughts suck. If your dealing with self-hate,
 or negative self-talk, then being isolated alone, is a terrible place to be.
 If you have a good portion of your life that is filled with bad influence or lack of healthy
 boundaries, low self-worth, that I can promise you that being alone with your own thoughts,
 which happen to be greatly affected by all of that crap, is a surefire way to cause some serious damage to you.
 An isolation is where some of your worst decisions are made and some of your worst belief systems.
 Broken belief systems are created. We were not made for isolation. We were created to have community.
 You have a Chris. My community sucks. Get another one. Get another one.
 Take a look at all the things we're talking about today. You may be the one that's causing your
 community to suck. Or maybe you've just chosen a really bad community. And you don't have healthy people.
 One of the things we focus on the next level of life is the relationship of valuations.
 We take a look at the people you spend the most time with. That influence you. And we see if they're healthier toxic.
 Some people choose toxic people. You need to change that community. You should start your community first with God
 then with other people. That order done continuously keeps you safer from self sabotage in your own thoughts.
 Spending time with God and then spending time with healthy people. So don't be surprised. You're making bad decisions.
 If you're isolated and not seeking the help of healthy individuals.
 The sixth thing. And we're going to talk about some action items and something you can do to help yourself this week.
 The sixth thing is blaming others.
 Many times instead of taking responsibility for our own actions. We try like crazy to shift the blame to other people.
 Or even situations, guys. Many times we will become victims and blame people. Or the situation.
 Well, I couldn't make that happen because you know an easy example of this is.
 Hey, you've been late three days this week. Well, I can't control the traffic.
 Okay, little victim. Let me ask you a question. Do you know that there's going to be traffic when you leave the house?
 Is there any possibility that other people will get in their cars and go out on the road today?
 Yes. Okay. Prepare yourself for it. Think ahead. Be smart. Don't blame the situations or other people
 because of something that you have done or something that you're experiencing, right? I'm not saying that other people aren't trying very hard to make your life difficult.
 But you have choices.
 You have choices. So for example, it's not uncommon for people who are terrible at relationships to not take
 responsibility themselves no matter how much information shows them how they are struggling.
 Instead, they find every possible reason no matter how untrue to blame someone else for the reason they are struggling.
 This only results in an unrealistic view of one's self, which hurts any attempt at personal growth.
 So you may be that person who everybody else in your life has something wrong with them.
 You know, you might look at yourself and go, why can't I have a quality relationship with somebody?
 Why can't I have a quality spouse? Why can't I have quality relationship with family members? Why can't I have quality friendships?
 You might start by looking at you. Now the people that are listening to this right now and going,
 oh, I know who that is and you're thinking of somebody else. It's you.
 You're the one who needs to focus on this. You should focus on the, don't worry about anybody else.
 Focus on you. Why do you not have healthy friendships? Why do you not have healthy relationships with your family?
 Why do you not have healthy relationships with a spouse or even have a spouse if you're wanting one?
 It could be you. It could be that the community that you surrounded yourself with.
 If you have not chosen healthy people to be around you and you're choosing to be unhealthy in
 relationships, then guess what? It doesn't matter what or who you blame.
 It's not going to change your circumstance.
 Get out of that thought process. Get out of that mentality. Solve this for you today.
 What am I doing? That's causing me not to have great relationships. What am I doing?
 That's causing me to affect me so negatively by blaming other people or other situations.
 So there you go. There's six different ways that we absolutely self sabotage ourselves. Now we have a great resource.
 We've created a resource so you can take action on this information. It'll help you to determine
 how much you are affecting you. There are six questions and some extra information that will help you
 to determine how you are holding yourself back. It's free and you can download it.
 Go to christlicardo.com/291. That's today's episode number.
 Chrislicardo.com/291 and get today's download and do it.
 Listen, actually sit down, book some time to sit down and answer the questions. They're very simple
 questions. You're going to be tough with your answers. But do not avoid this.
 If you want to see how much you're affecting you. If you want to see how much you're your
 own worst enemy, think about this. The guy who's teaching this, this is what I do for a living.
 My goal has been to fix myself to solve these problems. It's not blame people in situations
 to not isolate myself. To make sure I'm surrounded with healthy people, to understand God's love
 for me so that I know that I'm good enough. Even though I make stupid decisions in my life and
 will until I die, to make sure that I have healthy boundaries with people, to not believe the dang
 lives. Instead, battle with the truths and to make sure that I'm not procrastinating in decision-making.
 When I do those things, I'm not my worst enemy. So are you being your own worst enemy? Are you
 letting bad habits, fears, blame, lies, procrastination, all this stuff keep you stuck. Don't stay there.
 Don't keep holding you back. Start taking action today. Get your download at christlicker.com/291.
 And answer those questions today. Get that done and start helping you to overcome you as being
 your own worst enemy. Well folks, hopefully this has helped you today. As always, take this information.
 Change your leadership. Change your business. Change your life. And join us on the next episode.