 Part four of examining our lives to find the lies we tell ourselves that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardos Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are. In today's episode we are finishing up a series that takes a look at the lies that victims and villains tell themselves.
 The point is for us to face the wounds and weaknesses that we all have inside. Once again, as I've said in previous episodes, this isn't about pointing out victims and villains. This isn't about judging.
 This is about discovering which one are we if not both. What do we do about it? How do we self-examine discover and then do something about it?
 So finally, we're getting to some of the good stuff here. But if you didn't hear part one of this episode on villains, then I encourage you to go back to episode 4-97 as it sets up the context for today.
 Without examining our lives, thoughts and actions, we tend to get stuck in harmful and distorted thinking patterns. You've heard me say that while we listen to all of these episodes, you've heard me say that over and over again.
 We've all struggled with untrue recorded memos in our heads and often set to loop and repeat. That's where self-awareness comes in.
 It acts as a spotlight illuminating our thinking. It's helping us to identify where we're being deceived or deceiving ourselves.
 We're holding ourselves back. We're blocked by these ridiculous lies that we tell ourselves and believe. It's not just one thing to tell yourself a lie.
 For example, it's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It's a lie. It
 We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just going to be a lie. We're just
 We're helping you to do this for us. We're helping people get unstuck in life and in business. How to have great relationships. How to be a better leader. How to be a better team member. How to own a better business.
 To celebrate the fact that we keep growing and we keep helping people and we keep seeing them embrace the life and leadership that they really want.
 We're giving away free stuff. Yep. That's right. For the month of November, you can go to crissacrittle.com/500. That's 500 and answer a few questions that will help us bring you more amazing content and sign up for your chance to win some great prizes.
 Now back to self-awareness.
 It leads us to greater understanding. That is such a powerful thing for us to have. When we have greater understanding about ourselves, how we act, react, give information, receive information, respond to situations, respond to circumstances.
 When we have a greater self-awareness, we can do something about it. It starts with understanding and becoming more self-aware. We learn to understand what's happening in the moment.
 If we can stop in the moment, that's the difficult part. Some people can't stop in the moment to become self-aware. You will find that especially with folks who really struggle with defensiveness and self-protection that's stopping in the moment is incredibly difficult.
 Then you stop and go, wait a second. What's going on? What am I experiencing? What's happening? What's happening? To get some understanding. Maybe you can change. Maybe you can do something differently.
 That's the big key. How do we stop in the moment? Where does that lead us when we do more control? Then we can start to control our responses.
 We can start to calm our emotions. We can make better decisions in the moment.
 You've heard me say it. You've heard other people say it. Control is an illusion. I can't control others.
 I can control my responses. I love this quote from Holocaust survivor and psychiatrist Victor Franco between stimulus and response. There is space.
 In that space is our power to choose our response. In our response lies our growth and our freedom.
 Think about that. You have space. We all have space if we will just recognize that that space exists and make a decision.
 We don't respond so quickly. Maybe just spend some time marinating on what it is that you should respond with. If we will stop in that space, we can make better decisions.
 Imagine that we have to recognize. Many times fear, struggle, response comes from us imagining what could happen or what might happen or what's happening in the moment.
 So those are things we need to overcome. When we get back, gaining perspective and getting power over the lies of villain mentality.
 Hey folks, it's coming up. The next level leadership live event of 2023 will be here before you know it. In just a few weeks online registration will open up and I've got to tell you you won't want to miss this opportunity.
 Very limited time you'll be able to take $500 off of your tickets. That's right. A $500 discount. This is an incredible deal. The next level leadership live event is your best opportunity to get the tools you need to take your leadership to the next level.
 In the website very soon, but in the meantime, you can sign up now to be notified as soon as registration goes live. Don't put this off head on over to crissacardo.com/events.
 That's crissacardo.com/events.
 To set your notification and be informed as soon as tickets go on sale. I hope to see you at the event.
 Senika once said, we suffer more in our imagination, more often than in reality.
 Folks by taking a look at this kind of self-inflicted suffering because that's exactly what it is. We're inflicting this type of pain on our souls.
 We can clearly see the difference between the made-up and the real. If we can come to a place of recognizing, we can find that space. We can choose our response. We can find more freedom.
 Here's a few reasons why we formed these distorted thinking patterns and then suffer from them. Number one, lies get constructed and rehearsed when we're still young.
 Gosh, that's painful. Hey, parents. Think about what I just said.
 All you parents out there, if you're struggling with having to be perfect in front of your kid, if you can't let your kids see that you're vulnerable, if you can't let your kids see you fail. Guess what?
 There's a whole lot of lies that are being constructed in their minds right now.
 And it's lies that they're going to be telling themselves for a very long time. Right? I had a great friend of mine came down and brought his daughter with him to the ridge.
 And I was working on some stuff down here and it was phenomenal to watch him not know something and let his daughter teach him.
 I don't know. She's teaching me how to do this thing. I don't know what I'm doing.
 I'm not allowed his daughter to actually see it's okay to not have the right answers. It's okay not to know everything. So things you need to recognize as a parent be fallible. You already are. You're already fallible. Let your kids see it. Let them see your mistakes. Let them see a response of oh my gosh. I screwed that up. Let me take responsibility and fix it.
 And instead of no mistakes here haven't done anything wrong. Not going to show you that I've screwed up right help them to see number two. They become part of our root system that helps us to cope as I use my air quotes.
 Many times the lies that come from our training and the things that we've experienced in our youth become part of our coping mechanisms.
 And that's what we've experienced in our youth. And that's what we've experienced in our youth. And that's what we've experienced in our youth.
 And that's what we've experienced in our youth. And that's what we've experienced in our youth.
 And that's what we've experienced in our youth. And that's what we've experienced in our youth. And that's what we've experienced in our youth.
 And that's what we've experienced in our youth. And that's what we've experienced in our youth. And that's what we've experienced in our youth.
 The other fear, which is makes up, you know, 99% or more of our fear is the what if this happens, but this could happen, maybe this will happen, it's the imagination, right?
 It's that fictitious imaginary world. Those are things we've got to crush. We've got to get rid of those. Number four, sometimes we get pleasure from the pity and attention of others.
 Just sound terrible. But how many times have you received pleasure by people paying attention to you by people paying you, right?
 That needs to be something that when you see somebody pitting you or giving you attention for a lie or or victim mentality or villain mentality, that you crush that.
 That is not something you desire that that's something you push away very quickly. Number five, we reinforce our problems by being overly self focused. Hey, you want to solve a bunch of this that we're talking about stop focusing on you. Stop being self centered.
 You're taking a look at only you and seeing all the things that are happening in your life. Focus on others focus on serving others and by the way, don't fall for this ridiculous message that's out there over the last few years of what self care is that the world is on your shoulders and you take care of everybody and pour you. You've got to spend all this time with yourself and taking care of you and doing things for you and all these things.
 That are all about you, you, you, you, you, you, you self care is not about making you number one.
 It's not. It just isn't. Self care is about making you healthy.
 If you are healthy, then you recognize you don't want to be number one. You don't want all this focus on yourself. You want to be able to pour out into others.
 But you have to do it in a healthy way. There's unfortunately many people making a ton of money out there on this bad message about how the whole world is on your shoulders. Go take care of you. Everybody owes you guys. Nobody owes you nothing.
 So if you want to get out of a bunch of funk, a bunch of lies, a bunch of bad mentality, stop being so so focused and you'll be amazed at how much it changes you now.
 As for villains, here are some surface motivations. Maybe check and see if you resonate with any of these.
 Sometimes we internalize trauma we've received from others. Sometimes we take some pretty crappy situations, some pretty bad stuff that's happened in our lives and we internalize it.
 Yes, what's going to happen? Eventually, that's going to come out on somebody else. Somebody somewhere.
 Understand about abusive people is there's a lot of times that an abusive person has a much more abusive person in their history.
 And their childhood, somewhere back in there that abused the daylights out of them. When you were trying to rip control from somebody else, it's not because you all have said just decided you wanted to rip control from somebody else.
 Because somebody spent a good deal of time ripping control from you. Another thing is, sometimes we release like a pressure gauge pent up stress on others. I have been there where I have held stuff in for so long. Hello fellow high S is out there. You know, we all do this.
 But you know, pack pack pack pack pack pack pack pack down pack it down until I can't take it anymore and then like a pressure gauge boom. And then people are like, what's wrong with that person? Well quit pushing, whipping a jerk.
 How much, you know, sometimes some people will hold a ton in because they're trying not to respond back or the child doesn't mean that it's healthy. You're not hearing me say it's healthy and you're not hearing me justify it. But I've experienced that where I've, you know, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed,
 pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed
 pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed
 pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed, pushed
 then you don't want to miss this next part. Today we'll wrap this up with five ways that villains and heroes are different. And we're going to use Jesus' parable issues as Hebrew name of the good Samaritan or Samarian that he shouldn't actually be in there.
 The good Samaritan as our standard by which to judge by. So let's go to Luke 10 where you are reading from Luke 10 as an expert in Jewish law wanted to justify himself. So he asked Jesus and who is my neighbor and replied Jesus said,
 "Man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho when he was attacked by robbers. They stripped him of his clothes, beat him and went away leaving him half dead."
 And he happened to be going down the same road and when he saw the man he passed by on the other side. So to a Levi when he came to the place and saw him passed by on the other side as well.
 But a Samaritan as he traveled came where the man was and when he saw him he took pity on him. He went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine, then he put the man on his own donkey,
 "Broad him to an inn and took care of him." The next day he took out two denari and gave them to the innkeeper.
 Look after him he said, "And when I return I will reimburse you for any extra expenses you may have."
 Which of these three do you think was a neighbor to the man who fell into the hands of robbers? The expert in the law replied the one who had mercy on him.
 Jesus told him, "Go and do likewise." Okay, so let's take some cues from Jesus and talk about villains and heroes. And by the way, something that's very important.
 If you do not know who a Samaritan was, we always say the good Samaritan, well in the eyes of the people of that day the Samaritans were considered to be essentially enemies.
 Because they had assimilated in with other people and they weren't following the same ways. And so Samaritan was considered to be an enemy, a priest was supposed to be of the same line of people, a Levite, same kind of concept.
 What Yeshua is talking about what Jesus is talking about is here is a man who is considered an enemy that had mercy on somebody who considers him an enemy, right? So let's jump in here and take some cues.
 Five differences between villains and heroes. Number one, villains take advantage of others for their own benefit for power trip, even sometimes for entertainment.
 Those heroes leverage their energies, their resources and abilities for the good of others. If we look at Philippians 2/4, it says, "Don't be obsessed with getting your own advantage, forget yourselves long enough to lend a helping hand."
 What do you hear? Who do you want to be? Even if you don't want to consider yourself, you know, take out the word villain or hero. Just look at the difference. Do you want to take advantage of people for your own benefit for power trip for entertainment?
 Or do you like to take a look at the resources that you have and use it for the good of others? What does that look like? I'm not saying give every single thing away. You got to take care of other people, but it's not about ideal.
 Right? How can you take what you have? One of the things we quote all the time as believers is when you shoot it, when Jesus has asked, what's the greatest command?
 What is it like to take every aspect? Not just my money, Jesus is just money, right? What does it look like to take my family and use my family for good?
 What does it mean to take opportunities that I have and use them for good? My stuff, my vehicles, my possessions? What does it look like to take those and use those for good?
 Villains lack the self-awareness to know when their words and actions are affecting other people? Heroes recognize the impact of their words and actions on people around them. They understand that unity and peace are more valuable than being right.
 The vision is for it, because it is for a different person, and it is for a different person, and it is for a different person.
 If you are unaware of how your actions, your attitude, your defensiveness, your self-protection is affecting other people, it's because you are so stuck on yourself right now and so out of control that you can't see how you're affecting other people.
 Villains lack the self-awareness to go, "Oh my gosh, I am completely out of control right now and it's affecting other people."
 I need to write it in, I need to lock it down. I need to do something about this right now because I am so out of control that instead of stopping myself, I am spewing on somebody else, right? I am controlling or affecting somebody else in a very negative way.
 I don't do that. The person who is selfless, I hate to use the word hero, but that's the word that we're using today. Let me say selfless.
 People recognize the impact of their words and their actions on people around them, and they strive for unity and peace. Number three, villains seek to dominate others because they have not learned to dominate themselves.
 Well, hero seek to keep their own selves under control and to deny their own desires. Proverbs 25 says, "A man without self control is like a city that has been broken into and left without protective walls."
 Ancient wisdom says, "Man conquers the world by conquering himself."
 Folks, if you have any desires to dominate another person that is a fantastic red flag of how out of control you're feeling in life and how not self-aware you are on and what you're doing and what's the real reason behind it, right?
 So make sure there's no point. Don't try to control others. Control of others is an illusion. You can control you. Your feeling starts and to like your emotions, but I can't control anybody else. I can only highly suggest that they feel or think of certain ways. So think about this for a second.
 You can't make you feel unworthy. I can't make you feel not good enough. I can't make you feel stupid, dumb, insecure. I could only highly suggest that you feel that way.
 If it works and you take it and run with it, while then I've accomplished what I've been trying to accomplish, right? Villains do that. Don't be that person. Number four, villains uncover and exploit other people's wounds and weaknesses making things worse. Oh,
 I hate this one. This one's so much sucks, right? When you've seen people who can recognize the weaknesses, I just don't think this way. I'm so glad to see people who don't think this way.
 But I have watched people who could recognize those weaknesses or those wounds and other people and just rip them apart. Just rip it even further open. I don't get it. I don't get it, but it's insecurity, right?
 They feel so much better when they've done that to somebody else heroes seek to reconcile and forgive they seek to restore, they seek to heal, they seek to serve others. Again, the good Samaritan bandage the wounds and helped to bring about healing.
 And he did it at his own expense as well. So number five, villains lash out in order to cover up their own wounds and weaknesses. Heroes seek to reconcile and forgive, they seek to restore, heal and serve others.
 First, Peter four, therefore be self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your prayers. Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love conquers a multitude of sins.
 Guys, if you're trying to cover up and protect and every one of us have done this, every one of us have had a moment of bad decision making or mistakes that have happened and immediately what happens is that thought runs through your mind. How do I cover this up? How do I make sure nobody knows this?
 Every single one of us has experienced that. The thing is, is what do you do about it? How fast do you tell yourself that's stupid? I'm not defined by this mistake, I'm not going to lose worth to this mistake, I'm going to solve the mistake. I'm going to fix this thing, right? I'm going to do what I can.
 I'm going to do, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what I can, I'm going to do what
 Never, never, never, never, never going to grow into the selfless person that we're called to be. You know, again, we've used the term hero.
 I really like selfless, right? The more selfless I am, the more hero like I am, right? So both for ourselves and as well for others. Well, folks, hopefully that has helped you today.
 Hopefully you're able to take this information really self-examine and really self-assess. See where you are, see where the struggles are.
 Go through and find out, you know, hit all four episodes and find out what you were like to and then start putting the tools in place to solve this.
 So you cannot be either a victim or a villain, but instead a selfless loving caring person child of God.
 That's all we've got for today, folks. I hope that you have enjoyed this. Please put it into good jobs in your life and others.
 As always, we want you to take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]