 three years ago it was me throwing orders of people running around a little crazy missing deadlines,
 feeling stressed, working until 9, 10, 11 at log at night because I had to do nothing as I wanted to.
 Versus today where it's just fun again. I'm having fun doing this because I've got the time to enjoy it.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. I hope you are having a fabulous day where you are. Today on the show we have a very special guest and I wanted to bring him on to the show because
 he is killing it as a business owner and leader. Now the results in his business are the growth of the team. There's more productivity.
 He's developing leaders in his business. He's no longer stuck in overwhelm or task saturation, which is something that most leaders are in.
 His clients are being taken care of exceptionally well and his focus is where it needs to be to make the business successful, which is spending time
 leading his team to success. So if you do me a big favor, welcome, bum, McDonald to the show.
 But welcome. Awesome. So glad to be here. Thank you. So good to have you on. Love having you on the show.
 Love hanging out with you. Obviously you've been with us for quite a while in a bunch of processes.
 But we had a fantastic call a while back because of where your leadership is now. Now you're in a place in your leadership.
 We're so many people want to be. So today I want to kind of I want you to share how you got there, what you're doing.
 And I want you to give some advice to our listeners because it's a world of difference from people can hear other people being successful at stuff.
 You are killing the leadership crazy cycle. We'll talk more about that in a minute.
 But I just want you to kind of help people to see that this is not only doable, but that is the truth.
 I was probably a worst case scenario for quite some time. We did a straight plan. I think it was about two and a half
 three years ago. A task saturation came up in every single thing that was pulling us back.
 And it took me that long to actually act on it. And if I could, I know this is probably a 3045 minute podcast.
 I can shut it down right now and just the advice I'll give you is just stop it. Just do it.
 Don't do what I did. I waited way too long. If I had taken your advice, if I'd gone for what we didn't in
 strap land. And just did it when I showed up three years ago. My life would be so much different right now.
 And glad I finally did do it. But I think of all the pain and suffering that I've had to go through for the last three years because I just
 I was too afraid to make a right decision. I love the call we had.
 And I love your the Bobb new heart thing. Stop it. Just stop it.
 We had to call it a couple. I mean, just a while back. It was a while ago now.
 And I loved it because we get on the call in the first thing you say is Chris,
 I have led my team for 30 hours this week and it's exhausting.
 It's like, well, exactly. That's how that works. And then the next thing you said, which was,
 I think the big powerful piece was, I wish I would have done this two years ago when you told me to do it.
 And now you're seeing phenomenal results. And the crazy thing is you are so not alone
 and not implementing right off that one of the big things that we push for all of our folks in our next level
 mastermind and strap plan. And that's killing the leadership crazy cycle. So,
 kind of tell us more about so that people know where you are, kind of tell us more about your business
 and how you get to where you are when you started the business, how many people are on the team,
 all that kind of fun stuff, what does the business look like now, all that kind of fun stuff?
 We're celebrating 10 years this year. When I started 10 years ago, I was actually rebuilding the business.
 I lost my first one after the recession because I just did stupid things between that and
 just the bad economy. I wasn't set up. I didn't. I was young, stupid. I wish I, I know what I know now.
 It was just me in that a desk in a bedroom 10 years ago trying to start this thing over again.
 Took a big chance hired a full-time employee at a whole $24,000.
 Which was about what I was making at that point too. And a little by little we were so successful.
 We just kept adding more people and adding more clients and adding more people and adding more clients.
 And I'd listen to your podcast for quite some time and when you struck out on your own, I said,
 "I've got to do something." And I didn't know what that something was. I didn't even know what I needed.
 I just knew that they were already had a successful business. I didn't know what I could change to do that.
 And boy was I wrong. There was a lot of stuff I had to change. I know from the last podcast I did with
 you the accidental leader. Never anticipated growing the business past about four or five employees.
 I think I started working with you. We were about six or seven at that point.
 And I thought being a good leader meant holding a pizza party and saying nice things every once in a while.
 But I was a terror of the leader. I started realizing that when I went through a disc,
 started working with you more, started equipping myself to the handle stress better, to get rid of the fear.
 And I think everything really came down when we did stramp line with a couple of years ago. We really
 laid out what was holding the business back. And it's hard for me to do that because I
 looked at us. We were a profitable business. We were growing. I couldn't imagine how could it get any better than that.
 And fear and task saturation were the two things that came out and never category that we talked about.
 And that's four or ten years. Still fear. There's still a lot of fear in the decisions I make.
 But when I took the ego out of it, I did one of the big things that really helped me back was
 doing a lot of the work myself. I really started trusting the employees because we started hiring better.
 We started really getting a great culture. And not just that let's have a pizza party on Friday's
 culture, but culture of. Now all those 20 employees who buy into what we do, they care about what we do.
 Some of the comments I hear from the staff, especially the new employees are,
 I've never been anywhere like this where everyone really gets along and has each other's back.
 And for them to come in and recognize that is huge.
 So it was about this time last year where I really started taking the steps to say, I've got to get
 plants off. We have got to get some of this task saturation off me. And finally, in December,
 I pulled the trigger. It started building some plants over to some team members that I knew
 could handle them. And my big fear was, well, if they're not working with me, they're going to
 pire us because because me, nothing more than that. That's all I can sum it up with.
 And I'll be darned if we still don't have those plants today. And they're happier than ever.
 And probably more happier because they have some of my team members who can give them more time.
 And one of the things that you weren't me about in that planning session is I start getting the
 task saturation off me. What am I going to fill my time with? Where's that self-worth kind of come from?
 And my self-worth came from the tasks that people feel good. But now I'm feeling that time with
 a leadership. That was one of the tips that you gave me for every hour you can get tasks saturation off.
 Feel the spending time with your team. And it's paid off so much. It is exhausting because you're
 here dealing with people. And it is a high D. Just get it done. It's not as easy as it sounds,
 but it's so rewarding to know that we're making money because we're serving clients and we're serving them
 well. But the growth that I've seen in my staff. The personal issues that I've seen them will
 come. The things that I've been able to lead them through. This one has helped us as a team because
 we have you know reading grown staff members. But in their personal lives. The things that I've seen them
 will come because I've been able to invest in them and they know we'll spend time with them.
 I wish I'd done this three years ago. I think that's one of the most powerful things I want people to
 hear. Because and I know you said ego in there and we've known each other for quite a while now.
 I can say sure there's some ego in there. But I think there's more fear that was holding you back
 than anything. The fear of what if I'm not the one doing this, right?
 Yeah, absolutely. Because it is probably more of a control thing too. If I'm working with that
 client, I can control the situation. If something happens, I can do this. And I realize I'm
 wasting money if I'm paying the salary to someone and not trusting them to do the work that I'm paying them to do.
 Right. And I've got the wrong person or I'm not leading the way I should be.
 And I knew I had the right people. Yeah. And so I think that's exactly where you were.
 Is where so many entrepreneurs and so many leaders, I should say business owners.
 It's so funny to me to realize most business owners don't consider themselves entrepreneurs.
 Most business owners and most leaders. We have a lot of business owners and CEOs and presidents
 that make the decision that you did. This is the toughest thing. For business owners, most business
 owners become a business owner because they don't want somebody telling them what to do. They don't want
 the accountability. They don't want that help. I've got this. I'm going to do it on my own.
 And a lot of folks in leadership, same kind of concept, I don't want to go in, you know,
 seek this help because I need to show that it's me who's making it happen. You're one of the few people
 who made the decision and you even, you stated it that I remember years ago when you even said,
 hey, I need your help because of this. I don't, you know, in this area, I don't know what the crap I'm
 doing. I need to know what I'm doing. And that ability to be vulnerable, that ability to
 not, you know, be held back by fear is what started you in this process. Do you agree with that?
 Yeah, absolutely. And that ability to go, I don't know all the things that I don't, you know,
 you only know what you know, you don't know what you don't know. You know, that ability to be able to
 say that is the very thing that drove you into being where you are today, which is the very thing
 that holds so many people back is the, I don't know if I can do that. But what am I going to
 find out? What am I going to experience? So I applaud you for the, you know, being vulnerable and saying,
 I know I don't know, I need to go find out those things. So as the business kept growing back in
 those days, you know, like you said, this been 10 years of growth. What was on your plate? Where were you
 spending your time? I was, government, that's such a good question. Everything is, it's the truth.
 I was doing, I was doing some accounting, some accounts payable, some, we were in ad agency, so I was doing
 some creative director work. Probably the only thing that I was not doing was graphic design.
 And that's because all of the graphic designers, a lot of their keyboards because they knew
 how to wiggle. That would turn out. And that is pretty darn fruitful. So that's about the only thing
 that I was not doing in the business. And we had 20ish clients in about 10, 15 employees at that point.
 And how about your team? Where were they spending their time? They were spending the time in task
 saturation too because I part of the problem of meeting task saturated is I couldn't get the stuff
 fast enough. So I would create fires within the team because something would sit in my email and
 I finally get to it. And I'd have to pass it off to them. It would be a rush. This email came in from
 a client. I'm just out getting to it. So you have to go to this project really fast.
 All right. So adding to their task saturation and folks, I want you to understand this.
 It's incredibly common. The number one lesson that we push into our next level mastermind,
 we push it into our strap plan is what we call killing the leadership crazy cycle because it is
 common to get stuck under a mount the task or to get stuck in the leadership crazy cycle. So
 how would you describe the leadership crazy cycle? What does that phrase mean to you?
 It's really just doing things. It was without purpose. Stuff was just getting done because it
 needed to get done. It's like a whirlwind. Every day you're just trying to get stuff done. And I think
 the biggest issue is the team suffered because of it. As I look at, as I look back, the time that
 I can invest in it now, I can walk around the office and sit down for 15 minutes. And I can say,
 how are you doing? And actually sit down and have time to listen to how they're doing, what it's done
 for the culture? We have good employees who are loyal, they care about what they do.
 They'll go to bat for us. They're not clock watchers. And I think because they see that not just
 myself but we've got a leadership team now that leaves the same way. They see people care about them.
 So, you know, it's the economy keeps getting better and better if a labor market keeps getting tighter and
 tighter or without losing good people. And it's not because we're paying them the most. It's not because
 it's a Google interface book or with a cool place to work. It's because they know that they're going to
 be taken care of and that we actually care about them. And because I'm not task saturated.
 And it's already a cool place to work. It's always been a cool place to work. But there's this difference
 of even if it's cool and your leaders task saturated and you're getting rushed stuff and you're having
 to crank it out because your leader couldn't get to it fast enough and now your task saturated doesn't
 matter how cool the place is, right? Yeah, we could be working out of a warehouse at this point.
 Everyone is just happy to be able to come to a place for 8, 9, 12, 23 hours a day, whatever,
 whatever that particular day looks like. And know that there's no gossip, there's no drama,
 there's no clicks, a couple years ago they would come in and be afraid of what's going to set
 a go off today. They were working in fear too. And I think just having a place where they can come
 and know that there's a plan that the work isn't just last minute but they can actually enjoy what
 they do if they're a graphic designer, they can sit there and work on a project and put thought into it
 and then have fun doing the work too. Cash, I love to hear not only how much it's impacting you,
 but obviously how much it's impacting the team because that means that as they go home, it's not just
 impacting the day at work, it's impacting their night with their families, their spouses, their kids.
 So for me, everything that you just said there, that's the leadership crazy cycle, it's the process of
 doing so many tasks, trying to build your team, trying to build your business, trying to grow and do
 and do and do that you're overwhelmed under a mountain of tasks. But what happens is that you start to gain
 identity. And I think this is something that so many leaders don't understand that they're doing
 is that they're getting their identity, they're getting their worth in doing the tasks because for some
 strange reason, it's not a strange reason. I mean, we've been led this way. We've had bad leaders in
 our past that have been trained by bad leaders in their past that teach us that the more things you do in a day,
 the more valuable you are, the more your worth to the company is. And for leaders, that's why I call
 the leadership crazy cycle because you're going to have people that are going to do tasks, that their
 job is to do nothing but tasks. But for leaders, your job is to make those team members successful.
 Not to spend your every day giving your team five minutes today of your leadership because you're spending
 so much time in tasks. And like you were saying, "Bow, there's nobody else who can do this
 the way that I do it." So I better just keep doing it, which obviously keeps you in that crazy cycle,
 working, whether it's you working eight hours a day or if you're working 16 hours a day, you just
 feel like that rat in a wheel. You get things done, but they're not getting done well as you were saying
 that stress of, you know, I wasn't even able to get to this email yet. Now I'm getting it to it.
 It's a fire. Let me go ahead and dump this fire and somebody else's desk, which obviously
 stresses everybody and keeps you in that that task saturation. So folks, here's what we're doing for
 you, is you're listening through this. We want you to kind of understand this. We want you to know a little
 bit about what we're talking about. So we're going to give you the killing, the leadership, crazy cycle
 assessment. And that's a part, literally, of our next level of Mastermind program. So this is what
 bow his gone through. Everybody in our next level of Mastermind program that's done this assessment.
 We want you guys to take this to see where you are. So I'll tell you guys how to get hold of that
 the end of the episode. But we're going to give that to the listeners for free. And I'll explain more on
 that at the end of the show. So it'll help you to understand whether or not your stock in the leadership,
 crazy cycle. So back to being in that cycle, what was your day to day as a business owner? What
 did it look like when you were entrenched in the cycle? What were your biggest frustrations?
 The biggest frustrations, especially coming out of Strapland is not being able to execute those things
 because I didn't have time. You know, the three days that we spent with you, we came up with some great
 things. But I could never find the time to do them, which we just couldn't move forward if we didn't
 tackle that stuff. There's a few things that we accomplished that were easy wins for us. There were
 any products that we wanted to launch. There were things that we wanted to streamline processes that needed
 to be changed. But I couldn't find the time to work on that stuff. And it was holding us back.
 And one of the things that you brought up, an opportunity came to me about two months ago
 that if it had come to me three years ago, there's no way that I would have been able to handle that.
 It was just out of the blue someone called me saying, "Hey, do you want to buy our business?" And it
 fit perfectly with what we did at the same industry, the same type of business. And you know,
 two months into that now is I look at all the work that's gone into it. It was a perfect opportunity
 to land in our lap that if I didn't have the time to work on the strategy and putting this deal together,
 we would never put it pulled off and then it would be a huge loss force.
 That's such a timing on that was so God to be able to look at this and see that we're putting the effort
 into killing the leadership crazy. So I could go through all the stuff that we teach.
 And you were doing all the other stuff that we teach as well, just this is one of the things that
 was holding you back was a specific place. But once you did, the ability to take on and so let me,
 I'm now thinking of all those business owners out there that are going, "Oh, I can buy more businesses."
 It's like, "No, no, that's a this fit. This was great. What an opportunity. It would have
 sucked not being able to take the opportunity because of being stuck in the leadership crazy cycle.
 But because of where you are now, this is a this is complimentary to exactly what you're doing.
 It's not you didn't just go buy it completely different business and now you're dumping energy into that
 track." Yeah, this was something already operating. There were actually one of our competitors and then
 the guy was where you were tired. And I think the biggest compliment I got was when you said,
 "I didn't want to just shut the down. I know your reputation in the industry. I see how hard your
 team works and what a great team you have and I hear what all of your clients say about you.
 I wish I could have accomplished that. I wish plus that was true. Maybe I would have just been home
 to hear that was just because I know how much time it effort is gone into doing what we do."
 I can say as somebody who is connected with you and all the things that you're doing and trying to
 help you guys to grow a business, the difference between the bow of today and the bow of years ago is a
 massive difference because you have changed your leadership and you have become somebody who
 already cared about your business, you already cared about your business, your clients.
 You just needed to know the things that you didn't know and be able to work on those things. And so for me,
 it's always great. You know, I actually haven't asked when your team members in a while, but there
 were a time for a long period that I would just say, "Tell me the difference." What do you see is the difference
 in bow now compared to a while back? And everybody, they just get those big eyes and like, "Oh,
 it's a big difference." We can see that. I think you are being a little humble on that. I think for
 him to see that. It's exactly where you guys are. You guys are killing it. I'm doing such a great job.
 So what is it like now? What are you working on now that you couldn't before? Obviously, this is one of
 those things. But what's it like now to be where you are as a leader? I didn't think that this would be
 one of the things that would come out of it because being a high-dee, you know, having to
 converse with people and get full sentences and talk to people, it's certainly not one of my
 strengths. But the time spent with the team launched up what we call fly future leaders of the YMZ
 lab studio. You have to apply for others. There's a bunch of things that you have to,
 prior to you, you have to meet in order to apply and you write this long essay,
 talking about your leadership philosophy and where you want to go now, just within the team,
 but in life. And then we switch to them. So you're a long program. First of, first of
 you've done it. And I've had so much to see two people go through this this year. One that when she started
 with us, I didn't think I'd hear two words out of her. And she's been compelled to join toast masters.
 She's joined rotary. The personal growth that she's seen this year in her personal life. She's got a lot
 stuff in her group system that has held her back. And just the leadership skills that she's learned
 going through this. And in the second participant, just the growth that she's seen from the leadership side.
 There's places that we want her move up to. And she's equipped to do that. She understands what
 being a leader means that it's not just, you know, throwing tasks at someone or telling someone what to do.
 She understands our leadership philosophy and she's equipped to come and take more tasks off
 of one of my other leaders so that we can keep growing and then she can help lead people to from the
 young age. So let me get this straight. Am I hearing that because you killed the leadership crazy
 sockle because you've been so heavily focused on your leadership. You now have people that are
 developing into and by the way, folks, this is such a great process of the future leaders because
 you've put this thing in place. How are we going to get people into leadership roles? But because
 of those efforts, you now have people that are stepping up into leadership roles. Or getting themselves
 prepared for it. Yeah, I don't want them to stay. I don't want them to stay because we continue to
 grow and then opportunities arise to lead one of our teams is to put someone in there who doesn't
 understand what leadership is, could quickly just unravel all the hard work that we've done.
 So myself being able to pour into our younger leaders. That's generation that wants an opportunity to
 move up. And I get that feedback from them too that they've enjoyed spending time with the team.
 I hear their frustrations and some of the things that they encountered at I encounter five years ago
 that I can eat that through. Sometimes they have to learn the hard way but sometimes it's easier for me
 to share with them. I did that, don't go there. There's nothing like being able to help people because
 most people, young leaders or people wanting to be in leadership are going to go and they're going to
 try and impress and do all these things and protect themselves from looking like they've screwed up
 and all that. So it's so great to be able to be there in that guiding factor and saying,
 "This is okay, trust me here, don't do this here, push here, that is making your team members
 successful." So how does it feel for you to see people moving in that direction?
 You know, the biggest drill I used to get was looking at our clients, report cards about one
 to quarter we look at their growth and their results and that used to be the biggest drill that I get.
 And I still love it because it shows that we're doing good work, that the work we're doing
 matters, but the biggest drill I get now is when I move with the team and they share something that happened
 that week and I talk about how did you handle it, what did you learn from it? And they're soaking
 all that out there. They're seeing what I'm doing, they're seeing what the participants, the flight
 program, are doing and they're all becoming leaders. They don't have a leadership title,
 but they're all taking ownership of it. And not just in the office, but to know that there's
 20, 20 lives that I'm responsible for in a daily basis. And what I see some of the personal struggles
 and I see how they react to it versus how they wouldn't react into it or how they used to react
 to things, knowing that I'm growing good people that they're going out and it's impacting them
 personally, that's the biggest drill. I would say that the checks roll in every month are
 clients always pay on time, they're free, but the biggest reward I think that I get is knowing that
 I've got the time to invest in them now and they're hungry for it and they're better because of it.
 So just kind of give us a picture of this. You had six to seven people struggling, not you
 struggling as a leader. Business is being successful, but you're stressed, you're tasked,
 saturated, you're overloaded, the team stressed, tasked, saturated, overloaded. You're now at 20.
 Yeah, just 21. 21. So three times as big as you are and you are now in a different
 leadership position. Compare the picture of Beau with six seven people,
 stack up the leadership crazy, so compared to Beau now with 21 team members where you are.
 Three years ago it was me throwing orders of people running around a little crazy, missing deadlines,
 feeling stressed, working until 9.10 11 at log at night because I had to, nothing as I wanted to.
 Versus today where sometimes I still work till 9.10 11 is like that because I want to, not because I have to.
 You know, there's projects and I'm passionate about that I want to see through.
 I've a team that knows what has to be done. They don't need an order. They don't have to be told that
 this means to get done. They just work as a well-oiled machine. Everyone knows their roles because
 of the KREs that they have and they understand what success looks like. They have each other's back.
 They care about the lives. If a problem comes in from a client, something was messed up.
 There's no finger pointing back and before they go, fix it, ask questions later.
 I don't have to go metal in it. Very rarely do I have to go say what happens and what do we need to
 do to fix this? They're just doing it. So powerful. Now a piece that I need these leaders and these
 business owners and if you're a business owner, you're a leader. So I need all these leaders to here and we kind
 of touched on it a couple of times. What kept you from deciding to kill the leadership crazy cycle?
 Fear. That came up time and time to get an extra airplane. Why didn't we make this decision?
 Why couldn't I do that? Why haven't I done this yet? It was fear. And I would constantly
 go to what is the worst case scenario of I would do this. Instead of thinking, what could we come in?
 What is the worst possible thing that can happen? If I told the client that I can't work with you anymore,
 but this person is going to work with you. They've got so much more time. I'm still behind the
 seams to work on stuff for them. I would instantly think, "Okay, great. They're going to
 fire us because they're not way too much." And I think there's probably two different types of business owners
 listening now. One who's got maybe it's just themselves that they just broke out. They were working
 for different plumbing companies and they're great plumbers. I can do this myself. Start now. Start
 next hire you may be intentional about it. Find the leader. Find a better plumber than you. Stay
 out of it. Let them do what they're good at. Or someone like me can wait at way too long. They might have
 six employees or 16 employees and you think, "I just can't turn this ship around. We're too big.
 We've got too much going on. I can't just stop doing this. You don't have to do it in a long
 long one day. I get phases. I do that. I'm going to use two clients over here. I'm going to push
 more of this over to my accountant. He's better at that than I am. He's going to do it right
 the first time instead of me having to go to rework. It doesn't happen overnight. So if you're just starting
 out, do it right from the get go. If you've got a bunch of employees, you think it's impossible to
 do it. It's not just step by step. And I think the big thing is is that you weren't in trouble
 three years ago. You had a successful business. Things aren't going nearly as well as you wanted them to,
 but you could have continued like most people do like you just said that you could have gone for 20 more
 years bumping into the same problems, bumping into the same situations being frustrated, but still
 making money because most people put their success on the bottom line. Well, if we're in the black,
 then we're doing good. We're being successful and not realizing that success, the bottom line is so much
 easier to obtain when you lead people. When you actually lead people and allow them and teach them
 and develop them into being successful in their roles, the bottom line happens. I mean, would you agree?
 Where you are right now? How much has this impacted your bottom line by making the decisions to
 focus on killing the leadership crazy cycle? I mean, that's UCR numbers every quarter when we send them in.
 It has been amazing. Our account accounts are a little full of sentences. Your way over budget.
 It's an expensive one in hell. Because we have a team that can handle it. I don't have to focus on
 where is every dollar coming from now. I can focus more on what are the processes that they
 to change, what's holding us back, what piece of software that we have to get rid of in replace,
 so that we can keep being successful instead of... I think the biggest thing that I see,
 if I had not done this, if I had not started working with you a couple of years ago, if I had not
 started killing the leadership crazy cycle, we'd probably have the same number of employees.
 We have the number of clients. But I could see turnover being a larger vector. There's no mission or vision.
 It would be a dreadful place to work because the folks that come here to practice the craft
 wouldn't be able to do it and enjoy it. They would just be doing tasks. Our clients wouldn't be as happy
 because we would just be doing work to get it done. I can see it being a total 180 if we just
 did not make that decision. Yeah. And I think one of the other pieces that credit to you getting to
 this place is one of the pieces that held you back also was that thought, I've still got 10 of our
 biggest clients. You know, this is you are talented man. You've been phenomenal not only to build
 this business, but you come with an incredible talent of that your clients love. And they look to you
 and go, well, you know, bows my guy because and one of those thoughts was, nobody's going to be able
 to take care of the clients like I do. What was the thing that you shared with me after you passed
 those clients off? There were a wonder still with us. Two, they've, they've raised about the
 folks that they're working with because of the quality of the work they're getting. It's not that it wasn't
 quality before, but now they've got someone who can spend two, three hours in the day working on just
 their stuff. And instead of me who had to rush through it or put it aside for another day or go spend
 a Saturday or Sunday working out. They have people who I've been able to spend time with and
 been bringing up. It's also got me getting out of the task work, you know, being an agency. It might
 call and say, hey, we need a flyer for this event. I don't have to do that anymore. I can work on their
 strategy that's going to help them grow. Mother team implement it too. So folks, I need you to
 listen to this. Leaders listen to this in a situation where you may be super talented with your
 clients. You may be super talented with, you know, the gifts and talents that you have that you're implementing,
 but because it's keeping you stuck in the leadership crazy cycle, you were probably giving it nowhere
 near the amount of effort, attention, love and care. Like do your clients that another team member could
 who isn't working on the accounting, leading leaders, leading team members, having to buy, you know,
 new buildings because I think you guys are on your third building change or you're going to your third building
 in just the last three years, right? Yeah, we will be. We've had this office for two years,
 which are second main one, we're closing under new office, not cover. I remember what you guys
 moved into that office. Like, well, we got a lot of extra room up in these areas, moving to a new one.
 When you're bogged down in all of this, again, the leadership crazy cycle, then what you don't
 realize is that there may be somebody on your team who can give your clients way more attention,
 who can do the thing that you're still holding onto, give that way more attention. This is why,
 all of this, everything you're hearing today is the reason why killing the leadership crazy cycle
 is the first lesson we push out into our next level of messed up my program into our strap plan.
 Like, whenever we're going through setting up stuff and strap plan, this is the first lesson that
 we're pushing to these leaders to say, you've got to go through this, you've got to kill this because
 it's going to hold back all the other pieces. And that's why it's something that also, it's a process.
 So, truly killing the leadership crazy cycle requires understanding some of your root system,
 your implementation and accountability process, is something that you've been experiencing.
 Like, Bo has shared today that vulnerability of, "Oh, I thought this come to find out it's this."
 So, that's why we spend six weeks of intense focus on this program as you're leading your business.
 So, this is something that we spread this out and give you time to solve this sucker because it's big,
 but it's also the thing holding so much of your business back. So, but what would you tell,
 what would you directly tell the leaders that are listening right now? What advice would you give them
 if they're currently stuck and we know they are. So, what would you give them as far as being stuck in
 the leadership crazy cycle? I think you've got to start somewhere. Like I said, if you're in a
 established business, whether six employees or 60, I've been there, I thought it was impossible.
 That I could get this stuff off of my plate and get to where I am today.
 Don't get me wrong. I still have a long way to go. I want to, you know,
 have like self on the back too much from say, "I've arrived. I probably never will."
 But I just had to start somewhere. It was just a matter of putting a plan in place that
 here's one thing that I can tackle to get these two things off of my plate and recognize which
 team leaders I could take that to. It was also growing the leaders up so that I'm going to give you
 more responsibility, person A, which means, person A, you're going to have to push off more of your
 task saturation too. It's really understanding the talents of your team, setting them up for success so
 that they're not going to get pop-down tasks saturation and end up for you are. It's just a big
 rolling cycle. You give those two things off of you and figure out that side. Take two more things
 similar to this person, make sure they're quick to do it. The more we see these hidden talents
 of the team members that we say, "Oh my gosh, you are so good at that. Why is this person doing it? Let's
 utilize that talent and get this off of you." It's amazing when you don't dump a fire on their
 desk that you can see where they're gifts and talents like. It's like losing weight. You go into
 it and go to the gym once and it'll be well there while you have it lost to 50 pounds after the first trip
 to the gym. You have to do the things that your coach is telling you to do and some is just coming
 some stuff. One last donut. How come I haven't lost my yet? Exactly.
 Well, if I can summarize, so considerably less stress, less frustration with because there
 there used to be frustration with the team members being tax saturated and not getting things done
 completely or something. They're under fire. There's a frustration with that feeling which actually
 rolls back up to you as a leader going, "Why can't my team get this done? Come to find them now."
 Oh, well, their task is that right. The ability to train the leaders up, the growth that you've
 seen in your team and your leadership, the growth in your revenues, as well. The growth in you
 as a leader who is able to now focus on even purchasing other competitors, not that you're going
 after competitors, but being able to be in a place that you can take on more. Does that sound like
 all the things that have happened? It is. In short, it's just fun again. I'm having fun doing this because
 I've got the time to enjoy it. I love it. I love it. Well, bow if you could go back and talk to a
 young version of you. What advice would you give yourself? Higher people better than you.
 I looked at myself and I was doing everything and I thought I was great fit everything.
 And I once understood what my weaknesses were and I could find people who are much better at things
 than I were. It costs a little bit of money. I had to make some investments.
 I put it in the paid off of the big time. What I found passionate people who want to learn that are just
 here for a paycheck and treated them well and gain the responsibilities. There's so much better than I am.
 Smart leaders hire people that are better than they are. What they're doing, fearful leaders hire
 people that are less than every single time. Well, brother, I so appreciate this. You are a phenomenal
 leader. You've done an incredible job of leading your team, growing this business and more than anything.
 I think the big key is that you made the decision. Like you said, you got to start somewhere. You made
 the decision to go learn the things you don't know and to go implement the things that you need to.
 So again, I appreciate you being on the show. Thank you so much for doing this.
 Thank you for all you did. You've been an integral part of our team for just the last couple of years.
 We wouldn't be here without you. Well, it has been a blessing. It's great to be a part of the team because
 I do feel like that with all of you guys. I feel like I get to be a part of that process and it's always
 great to be shown up whenever you come to events because you always come up a better dress than anybody else
 on the room. I'll do the rest of the room next time. But always shows up, but it's just like,
 I wish I could wear that. That is quite a jacket. So folks, you just heard this. You are stuck in this
 place. You know what it's like. You're experiencing the leadership crazy cycle. How do I know this?
 It is every single leader that comes to us. It's every leader that I've worked with. There are
 very few people that I've ever discovered. I think of Ken Blanchard as being one of those guys that
 has done a phenomenal job of not being bogged down and stuff and focusing on his team. He has
 a different perspective that he looks at when he does that kind of stuff. Everybody else that I've worked with
 has been stuck in the leadership crazy cycle. I'm not saying that Ken isn't. He just does a really good
 job leading his people and leading his team. I know what it's like for you to be stuck there. I know
 what it's like to be bogged down. I know what it's like to be overwhelmed. I know what it's like to be
 struggling because your team doesn't seem to be pulling off the things that they should be.
 And I notice like to discover that you're the problem. And what is the real problem? Nobody has taught
 you how to do this the right way. That is why. Again, this is the number one thing that we push into
 our programs. The leadership crazy cycle is more than just overwhelmed. It's more than having a full
 plate. You have a five minute evaluation you can do to see where you are in the leadership crazy
 cycle. So before you can get out of it, you have to diagnose it. Now maybe you're just struggling with
 certain areas of the leadership crazy cycle or not others. It's important to find out. So the leadership
 assessment is from our next level mastermind program and it's going to educate you more on the things
 keeping you in the leadership crazy cycle by taking it. Then you can start getting traction and getting
 yourself out of this cycle. Super easy to do this. Go to criclicrido.com/292. That is today's episode.
 Criclicrido.com/292 to get the mastermind leadership assessment. It's free. It takes you five minutes.
 So go to cricicrido.com/292 and get that now. Thanks again, Beau, for being on the show and given us
 your advice and insights on the leadership crazy cycle. I appreciate that.
 pleasure is always. Thank you. And like I said, Bozofon, I'm an all-eater. And he needs to be
 much great to work with. So, if I am a bank or credit union, work and I find you. We are at your
 marketing code.co and we're all over social media, Facebook, you can see our crazy antics, the crazy
 bitters. You guys always love all the pictures. I don't spend a ton of time on social media,
 but whatever I do, you guys are either at a some party with clients or bands or crazy dinners. So I love
 it. So one more time, they can get you at it's Y-O-U-R marketing, CO.com. Fantastic. Well folks,
 hopefully this has helped you today. As always, take this information, change your leadership,
 change your business, change your life, get out of the leadership crazy cycle. And make sure
 you join us on the next podcast.