 On today's show, the question, what's the difference?
 Now it can be hard to tell when you or someone else is just people pleasing versus serving
 others with an open heart.
 That is what we're going to be discussing next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 It is a beautiful day here in Tennessee.
 So glad that the sun is shining and it's getting a little bit warmer, which is nice.
 What is it like in Sicily?
 Welcome back to the show, Brian Alex.
 In Sicily.
 What's the weather over there?
 Well, the sun is shining, the birds are singing, the tank is clean.
 I don't know what that means, but it sounds good.
 I think that was a finding, nemo reference.
 It's so good when we met.
 I was like, what take you to talk about there?
 Look at, there's all kinds of answers I could have fallen into that category.
 Oh, my, yeah, it was reading.
 It worked.
 I like it.
 I like it.
 Welcome back to the show.
 How about you tell our listeners what we're doing today?
 Well, we do have something a little bit different.
 So the setup here is what's the difference.
 And obviously, the set of the episodes are going to be a little bit different in itself.
 We're going to break apart to seemingly similar, maybe hard to distinguish things in hopes
 of gaining some perspective, whether we're talking about ourselves or other people.
 But before we get too deep into it, let's kind of set up the topic here.
 We're talking about being a people pleaser.
 Some of you already know if that's you or not.
 Some of you may not even realize it.
 Now the general idea of pleasing, serving, loving others is not a bad thing at all.
 But when our motives get caught up with rude issues and Chris, I'm sure you're kind of
 unpack more about that in a minute, this can become a real problem.
 We open ourselves up to all kinds of bad things, manipulation, abuse, et cetera.
 And looking at Scripture, we understand from God's perspective that he'd rather us be pleasing
 him and obeying him rather than men.
 And the book of Colossians, for example, the apostle Paul talks about what's the opposite
 of people pleasing.
 It's sincerity of heart and fearing the Lord.
 It's obedience to his commands.
 And we know we're supposed to love, honor, serve, and respect each other.
 But yeah, things can get a little messy, especially when our motives are a little bit unclear.
 And so let's bring you back into this, Chris, we've known each other for a while.
 So I'll just make an observation here.
 I know you, and I feel like I know you're hard.
 I've seen it on display so many times.
 You love to help people.
 You love to see others grow.
 You have a general desire for their well-being.
 You have a servant's heart.
 At the same time, I know a lot of your story, the things you've been through, your personality
 style, all of that.
 And you've struggled, and you've said it many times before, even on this podcast, you've struggled
 with being a people pleaser.
 And so let's stop right there.
 I want to dive into this and just have you unpack for us, because I know there's a lot of
 people out there that struggle with, what am I doing right now?
 I'm being that people pleaser.
 Am I just a servant's heart?
 How far do I take it?
 What does that look like?
 So when we come back after the break, I'd love for you to unpack what that struggle has been
 like for you, and where that breakthrough came.
 I don't know what you're talking about.
 I've never struggled.
 So now Chris, the world's shortest episode.
 That was quick.
 I've never had a problem.
 Right, when we come back, telling the difference between people pleasing and having a real servant's
 right.
 Hey folks, you've probably heard me say that registration is open for the next of a leadership
 live event in April of 2023.
 But you've only got a few days left to take advantage of our incredible offer.
 Your chance to save $500 off of every ticket.
 That's right, the $500 discount off of your tickets.
 Every ticket that you buy is going to expire very soon.
 The next level of leadership live event is your best opportunity for you and your team to get
 the tools you need to take your leadership to the next level.
 So do yourself a favor, head on over to Chrisacordal.com/abends.
 Just type in Chrisacordal.com/events/before the special offer goes away.
 I cannot wait to see you and your team in April.
 We're back and we're talking about my struggles as Brian pointed out in the front part of
 the show there that is, we're talking about the difference between people pleasing and having
 a real servant's heart.
 There is absolutely a difference.
 We want to unpack that.
 We want to talk about what is the difference and why do they look so similar?
 In many times there's things that you're doing that is serving people and unfortunately
 it's more wrapped in people pleasing.
 Then there is a distinct difference when you're able to get out of the people pleasing.
 Let's just start with my struggles.
 What I've struggled with in life and I've talked about this before but let me kind of hit
 this where the first half of my life probably even a little bit longer than I've
 done it.
 I was definitely a people pleaser.
 What do we mean by people pleaser?
 Somebody who is doing things to please others because in the end it gives me worth.
 So I am well aware that there is a large percentage of the people that are listening to
 the show.
 When we look at our demographics, not everybody but there's a good percentage of people who are
 also people plezers as well or come from a people pleasing background.
 So to understand what it means to people pleases if we just give you our definition of what we
 feel like it is, it's doing those things.
 The focus may be helping somebody to get better.
 The focus may be trying to make somebody happy which in keep in mind as I say this you can't
 make anybody do anything unless you can physically control them.
 I can't make you happy Brian.
 I can't make you feel stupid.
 I can't make you feel intelligent.
 I can't make you feel attractive although you are quite handsomely attractive obviously.
 I mean I get that a lot.
 I get that a lot.
 You get that a lot.
 Absolutely.
 You know I can't make any of those feelings emotions happen.
 All I can do is highly suggest something.
 Well, we talk about that a lot when it comes to the concept of control.
 I can't control somebody.
 I can't make you feel inadequate.
 I can't make you feel unworthy.
 I can't make you feel any of that stuff.
 I can't make you feel stupid people say all the time.
 Well, that person just made me feel stupid or that person made me feel like I'm an idiot.
 I can't make you feel like an idiot.
 All I can do is highly suggest that you feel like an idiot which is very incredibly unhealthy
 on my part.
 The problem comes in when you receive it and then now you are an idiot.
 If you receive what I'm suggesting, well, then it becomes your reality.
 So I've set your reality, but you've received it and now it is your reality.
 So it's the same concept when it comes to people pleasing.
 Same exact thing.
 The difference is I'm trying to please you somehow.
 Most of the time this shows up, it's super easy to see.
 It's the person who's always trying to make people happy.
 It's the person who feels responsible for other people's happiness, for other people's feeling good
 about themselves.
 And so it's not difficult to see that person who spends a lot of time trying to figure out what
 can I do today to get you to feel better?
 What can I do today to make you happy?
 What can I do today to make you love yourself more?
 Now, again, all of that is focused on if you feel better about you.
 If I see that you're happy, if I did something that caused you to be happy, if I did something
 that caused you to feel good about yourself, then I feel good about myself.
 And I feel more worthy.
 This is where I get my worth.
 So what I'm reading into the situation is that you're struggling with something, or here's
 the extreme side of this.
 This happens a lot too.
 I might not be doing good with worth.
 I'm struggling with worth on the front side.
 So I project onto you that you need to be happier.
 That you need to feel better.
 That your day is not as good.
 So I'm going to come in and rescue you in your day.
 All of this is suggesting that you have a problem because you're not happy enough.
 You're not feeling good enough.
 You're not feeling worthy enough.
 You're not feeling loved enough.
 Whatever it is, whatever I'm projecting here.
 And then the other major piece is that if you do appear to seem happier than my worth
 meter goes up because I've just become more worthy, look at what I've done.
 Look at me.
 Where's the problem in this?
 There's many problems.
 Many times people pleasing from that aspect is setting a false reality.
 Right?
 Once again, since I can't make you feel anyway, all I can do is highly suggest it if I understand
 that, then I don't attach my worth to it.
 If I understand that my worth is not in you being happy, my worth is not in you being pleased.
 Think of how many team members try to please people please a boss, a leader.
 Another team member, right?
 And they go to crazy lengths.
 We always talk about, if you go through personality styles, high eyes tend to fall into this
 category.
 Eyes and S tend to fall into this category a lot.
 But eyes will definitely fall into the category of trying to please a leader by taking
 on too much.
 They will keep taking on stuff.
 And the great thing is in the beginning, they're doing great.
 They're not going to things out.
 The leader sees us and it's just like, wow, I really like this team member.
 And so the people please are, if they're not again, if they're not aware of this, they
 continue to do more and more and more.
 Take on more.
 And then when the ball start dropping and that leader's coming back going, hey, why is this
 falling apart?
 It is a natural response for that people please are to go, well, you've put too much on
 me and start blaming and throwing the leader underneath the bus.
 Because now, the thing that they were doing that was getting so much approval, so much attention
 from that leader is now backfire.
 They've done too much.
 They've gone too far because all in an attempt to gain worth and now it's falling back on
 them.
 So hopefully, does all of that make sense?
 Does that set up do well?
 Is there any questions you have so far in any of this?
 Yeah, I mean, I'll just make an observation.
 This ties into so many things that we teach around here.
 Some of you are core teachings on the podcast and the point main group and in the business,
 centers around these kinds of worth issues and where the water gets a little muddy for me.
 I'm more on that DC spectrum.
 So I'm not aware of myself people pleasing a lot of the time or feel like I have any tendency
 to, however, I catch myself a lot of times feeling like, well, I don't want them to think
 this about me.
 So then I'm going to keep, and I just as you're talking, I'm noticing, wow, maybe I've
 got things to watch out here as well.
 There may be folks listening that they wouldn't think of themselves as a people pleaser, but
 as we start to, it's like an onion.
 You start crying as you get into it and you go, okay.
 It's so important.
 It's so much easier, especially when I'm more on that, I'm channeling that D to be like,
 I don't care what people think and be a bulldozer and just kind of run through, but then
 you think, oh, man, I'm being a jerk and all this and I don't want to do that either.
 And so finding that heart, finding that the middle ground where there's that tension on both
 sides that you're not, you know, you're not abusing, manipulating, it's like one of our recent
 podcast episodes about the victim and the villain mentality and how there's these two
 spectrum, the other two extremes on either end.
 We find ourselves somewhere in there, usually we have thoughts going through our heads all the time
 that are somewhere in that spectrum.
 And so let's unpack just a little bit more about for those on my side that, you know, because
 you mentioned the eye and the yes, I'm over here as a D and a C and I have to pull back the
 reins, okay, don't be a jerk Brian and I pull back the reins a little bit, but occasionally
 I find myself, yeah, kind of getting sucker punched into that of, well, let me just check
 up there, okay, let me do this, let me do this, let me do this and I kind of find that I'm
 I'm seeking value, I'm seeking some more, I'm seeking to make sure that I'm okay and I can't
 be okay, maybe this is a great way to think about it.
 I can't be okay unless they're okay.
 And as soon as I catch that, I'm like, what do I do?
 All right, so that's where I get stuck.
 Yeah, even as a as a D and C.
 Yeah, so the funny thing is, as we talk through personality styles, we tend to talk about them as
 individuals, a D and I and S or a C. Well, we all have levels of everyone, right?
 And so while you are dominantly D and C, you still have I and S and there, there's still
 aspects of you.
 It is not only the eye and the S that people please is, it just tends to be, so if we were
 going to generalize, which all of the 99 Cs are like, you better not, don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 Don't do that.
 The task personality styles the D in the C are going to tend to be more control in.
 So do not take that and run with that and go, oh, somebody's a D.
 They're controlling somebody's a C. They're controlling the eye and the press gets sent by reality.
 Yeah, that's the look of that way to go.
 I'm not listening to you anymore.
 The thing to understand is we all have levels of different TIS and C, but also it's not,
 it isn't your personality style that drives your responses.
 It's the vice versa.
 It's the things that you have in you, the things that have been trained in, sign of you, the things
 that you know that God had created in you and having a personality style.
 And then all of your root system thrown into this mix that drives how you go about getting
 worth.
 So for me, I'm a very high S. I'm an S. I. D. C.
 And so for me, I was a colossal people pleaser because there was so much training that I had that my
 worth was in if people were doing good.
 If they weren't doing good, unfortunately, I have a huge period of my younger years that when
 people weren't doing good, I was their problem.
 I was their villain, right?
 It would come to me out of the out of nowhere.
 I had absolutely zero to do with it, but somehow I became the problem.
 And so that trained me to believe that it was my responsibility for people to be happy.
 It was my responsibility and I surrounded myself with these people as well as I continue to
 get older.
 I found myself putting people in my life that I would spend time trying to make happy, right?
 Because in my mind, that was my worth.
 So again, what that being said, it can be any personality style.
 The key is, are you driving or trying to derive worth from making somebody happy, even to
 the point that you made a while back about, well, I don't want them to think this about
 me.
 How many times do you try to, and this is where the control side comes in, how do you try to
 control somebody's opinion?
 Yeah.
 Well, you do it by highly suggesting that they have a different opinion of you or a better
 opinion of you or whatever.
 Why?
 Why is that important so that you don't lose worth in your mind?
 If you can see you losing worth in this person's, in the way that they're viewing you, the
 way that they're responding to you, well, then crap, you've got to fix that piece.
 So everybody can people please to an extent, right?
 It's where you're getting your worth from.
 That's the big piece.
 So with that being said, that is something that I struggled with for a very long time.
 It wasn't until my mid 20s.
 So almost half of my life ago, when I really felt God just smack me upside the head and believe
 it or not, it was in ministry days, when I was in youth ministry.
 And my desire was, I could watch these amazing pastors and speakers and preachers just
 move people with emotion.
 And they had just amazing numbers of people that would just flock to them, right?
 And I would see this and our associate pastor was one of those guys.
 He was only a year older than me.
 And he just had, he'd been preaching since he was like, I don't know, I think it was 15 years
 old or something like that.
 And he could just move people, right?
 And that was what I wanted.
 I'm like, that's who I need to be like right there.
 And I remember I had finished preaching a youth service and I came over to the main services
 Wednesday afternoon, Wednesday evening.
 And so it was, it was a mega church that I was in.
 And I sat up in the upper balcony, which on Wednesday, not only the floor was full.
 And I sat up there and I was listening to him preach.
 And he was talking about how Satan gets to us in our weaknesses.
 And he goes, you know, Satan gets to a drunkard through the bottom of a bottle.
 He goes, that'll never happen to me because alcohol was never touched my lips.
 Funny thing, somebody afterwards told him what Nikola was kind of ruined that form.
 He said, how Satan gets to me is, you know, I want you guys to think that I am a great speaker.
 Because you know, someday I want you to think I'm a great pastor, but right now my focus is,
 I want you to think that I'm a great speaker.
 And I was like, yes, that is me.
 I'm 26 years old hearing this going, that's what I want.
 Sitting up there and it gives me chills every single time.
 26 years later, I still get chills thinking about this.
 Sitting up there in that balcony, I heard God say, did you hear what he said?
 And I want, yes, he wants people to think he's a great speaker.
 And then I heard no, he said that someday he'll want people to think he's a great pastor.
 He's supposed to be that now.
 And every hair on my body stood up.
 And then I heard God say, if I'm going to put my people in front of you, but I'll be about me, not you.
 I'll be about what they hear, not what you say.
 And brother, that was the absolute shock that I needed.
 That was a flip of a switch that day for me when I started.
 Now, keep them on.
 I didn't, while I flipped the switch, I didn't fix everything that day.
 I had still had a journey that I had to go in.
 That was a day that I began the process of not seeking men's approval and men's worth
 and seeking heavily gods.
 I felt God speaking to me that day, entailing me, if I do this,
 it better be by my standards, not by yours.
 It better be about me, not about men.
 And that was a powerful piece for me to start recognizing how much I had spent my life trying to
 please men.
 How in the way that I was looking at my, the ministry that God put in my hands, the ability for me to get up and speak and preach and teach God's Word, which man has come a long way since there.
 What was about me? It was about me delivering a message that moved people so that I could feel good about myself.
 If I felt like they felt good, if I saw that they were moved emotionally, then it was great.
 So world of difference, how I teach now.
 When people come to our events, next up a leadership live event, the retreats, people aren't coming for the motivational speaker.
 I don't get up there and do what I did back in the early 90s, mid 90s.
 I don't get up there and try and move people with emotion.
 It is heavy duty teaching.
 It is deep teaching.
 It's tough teaching.
 Everybody who comes to our events for years, I used to say,
 I don't think this lesson is going to be that tough.
 We'd get done with people like, oh my gosh, that's a lot.
 And the funny thing is, who doesn't show up to our events?
 People who aren't willing to do something about it.
 People who aren't willing to implement.
 The people who don't show up are the people who are focused on, I just need to be motivated and not really doing anything with it.
 That was the change for me.
 Was looking at the difference of people pleasing to feel good about myself.
 And instead focusing on what do people need.
 That's where we shift into this concept of a service heart.
 So what happened with me?
 Well, I started realizing that I was affecting people in a negative way.
 You would have had many conversations.
 There have been many times that I've pushed on you for things that you were experiencing.
 This is everybody around me.
 Everybody in the business, everybody around who comes and seeks this,
 recognizes they're going to get pushed on in certain areas.
 I love you to death.
 I think the world of you.
 But here's what I had to understand.
 If people please Brian, I hurt Brian.
 As you're coming to me and seeking something,
 here's a situation in my life, you know, how to walk through this.
 Maybe you weren't coming to me.
 I just decided to jump into your life and help you a couple of times.
 We're brothers.
 I get to do that.
 I get to do that.
 You know, if there's something, you know, when people come and seek us in next level
 life or strap on or whatever, the thing that I've had to come to understand is,
 if I am trying to make you my friend, I tell people in strap plan,
 I hope you leave liking me.
 But that's not why you're here.
 And that's not why I'm here.
 I don't know if anybody who's left, not liking me.
 But I always tell people, I'm going to push on you.
 There's going to be aspects that if once we get through this,
 you're going to be incredibly thankful that you walk through this process.
 Well, what is this?
 Is this me just trying to push on people?
 Is this me just trying to, you know, tell people things?
 Nope, it is not.
 It's me being able to give that God gave me as a,
 here's the funny thing.
 The very things I was doing as people pleasing,
 which was about my worth, he rolled up into a process that I get to help people
 with now because it's not about my worth.
 So instead of looking at somebody and trying to make them happy,
 what I've done for the next 26 years past that is help people to discover
 things that are going to help them have a better life to have better families,
 to make better decisions, to run their business better, to be a better leader,
 to be a better team member, to be a better business owner,
 to be a better Christ follower, a channel of God, right?
 And so the servants heart steps in and I am a very high altruist that is my highest
 motivator, my highest value if you've taken the motivators profile as well.
 That is by far my highest.
 I am very motivated by developing people by removing pain from the world.
 So here's the funny thing, I can't stand to see people in pain.
 I hate conflict, I hate struggles and yet I'm really good at helping people work through painful
 situations.
 I'm really good at helping people to see things and make better decisions and move forward.
 The servants heart, and by the way, high altruists are the door mat of society.
 We allow people to walk all over us because we're trying to help them.
 And unfortunately there's a lot of unhealthy people who see that and take advantage of it.
 Well it's our fault.
 We put ourselves out there.
 Unless we become healthy and recognize that it is not serving somebody to feed into their struggles
 and their issues and allow them to take advantage of that situation.
 Hopefully that makes sense.
 I'm going to take a breath here in a minute, you can ask me to breath here.
 But the servant side is making sure that I'm assessing what I believe is the best thing
 I can do to help you.
 What I believe is the thing that you need in the moment.
 Sometimes that's a push, sometimes that's just a hug and sitting in silence.
 Sometimes that's a hard push back on somebody and sometimes it's just gentle.
 One of the things I love about having like strap plan is we always have these different
 always 90% of the time we have different personality styles around the table.
 So I might be speaking to a D and pressing on that D and then turn to a highest and very gently
 talk through the situation and they get the same teaching, the same growth, everything.
 But I don't need to 2 by 4 of the highest.
 I don't need to 2 by 4 of the high.
 That high D, the high C, many times I've got to press in on the thing that they're pushing
 hard on.
 And once they get it they're like, oh, okay.
 And they're able to five minutes later move on.
 But on the same conversation I can turn to a different personality style and become a different
 person.
 I don't become a different person.
 I just lean in their direction.
 I don't beat them up.
 I don't have to hit them harshly.
 I just can press in and speak and talk about, hey, do you see this?
 Do you recognize this here?
 And they can see it and it's completely different.
 What I call push, to the highest.
 It seems like it's a push, but it's really not.
 To the ID, it's definitely a push even though to the ID sometimes it doesn't even feel
 like a push.
 It just feels like every day.
 So the servant's heart for me is recognizing not how can I gain worth from helping this person.
 Not how can I gain worth at all.
 It is assessing to the best of my ability if this is something that God has gifted me with.
 What does this person need and how can I help them get to it the best I possibly can?
 So all the questions, those comments.
 That's a lot of stuff.
 Yeah, there's a lot.
 There's a lot there to unpack if we had a series.
 We could unpack a lot of this.
 No, my mind goes to, you know, if we're coming to the end of the year and if we had one
 theme, one even one word to sum up a lot of the thematic element of this whole year,
 maybe 22, it's been about assessment, self assessment.
 And you know, we're taking an assessment here today.
 I mean, even for me, and I kind of set up the format here and in my mind thinking, oh,
 I don't, I don't wrestle with this so much, but I can see now.
 Oh, gosh.
 Yeah, it's a lot more clear.
 Some things have kind of come into focus.
 So let's, let's help people before we get to the conclusion, just to tease out some of those
 earmark thoughts that go through our head, some of those, the tapes that are running, I
 mentioned a moment ago, I don't want them to think X about me.
 Are there some other cues that we could offer people?
 Hey, you might be leaning towards that, you know, that people pleasing disposition,
 that mentality, if you're not okay unless somebody else is okay, what else comes to mind that
 you think might be helpful to people?
 You want to Jeff Fox, where are they this type of thing?
 You might be a people, please, or AF?
 Can you do the X at us, awesome guy.
 Great.
 I think those things, like those are some of the big ones, the, I feel responsible for this
 person's happiness, right?
 If they're not happy, I can't be happy.
 If they're not having a good day, I can't have a good day.
 You know, a lot of, so a lot of, so a lot of, so a lot of, so a lot of, so a lot of, so a lot of
 dependency almost totally is.
 Oh, absolutely right.
 So think about, think about how, why do we have amazing comedians?
 Where does all of that comedy come from, right?
 Well, for the most part, the bulk is people recognizing at a very young age that they could
 make somebody happy, and if they could make them happy, then they could be happy.
 Well, here's an interesting thing that most people don't know, a lot of comedians are very
 alcohol dependent, drug dependent.
 A lot of smoking cigarettes, you know, a lot of dependencies because of the stress that it
 takes to try and make people laugh, right?
 Well, what is that coming from?
 And I'm not saying all, but there's a lot.
 And I think if you, and I know, because I've actually done research on this, there's a good
 number of comedians that will be very open about, you know, how they're struggle, their personal
 struggles, and families are screwed up, and, you know, they, they, a lot of divorce in there,
 a lot of, you know, which is everywhere anyways.
 But you get the point that I'm making here.
 The concept of having to try and make somebody happy, make somebody laugh, make somebody
 okay.
 I'm not okay.
 I'll never forget a far side cartoon.
 It was called the, I'm okay.
 You're okay, Coral.
 It's good.
 It's good.
 It's good.
 Two good slingers.
 Like, you know, you draw first.
 I understand your need for control.
 No, no, you draw first because I understand, you know, they're just go back and forth, but
 I'm like, there's just hilarious.
 When you look at the intent of trying to please a person, what's behind it?
 I'm saying that this person needs me for them to feel better.
 Well, you just can't stop there because here's the key.
 What if they don't feel better?
 Then what?
 Well, I'm going to suck.
 Ah, here's where we truly see the people pleasing.
 We have no problem saying, well, I tried to help them out, but they just, you know, they
 wouldn't change.
 And what we miss out on is the, the struggle that we experience on the backside of that, right?
 But let me either that the worth that we experience or the loss of worth that we experience.
 Let me put it in those two categories.
 So if we gain worth by helping somebody, who was that really truly about it?
 It was really truly about us, right?
 It wasn't truly about that person.
 I'm not saying you can't feel good about yourself.
 That's not what I'm saying at all.
 I'm saying that on the backside of this, if you are gaining worth, then there's an issue,
 right?
 Because the focus is on, oh, I'm worth more because I did this thing.
 If you're losing worth because it didn't work, you didn't do a good job.
 Whatever the struggle is once again, it's not about that person.
 It's about you.
 So the keys are, you know, if this person is okay, I'm not okay.
 I'm responsible for this person's happiness.
 I see this person isn't happy.
 I need to do something about it.
 It's my job.
 It's my role to do this.
 Any of those pieces are going to be on the front side.
 The other side of this is recognizing when it doesn't work and recognizing how you feel
 and how bad you feel that is a massive indicator that you have connected emotionally hand
 cut yourself to this person, which means that you are believing the lie, I can make this
 person happy.
 I can make this person better.
 I can make this person whatever.
 So when they're not that the lie, how much you in the face, oh, no, you can't do that.
 You're the problem.
 You have failed.
 You're not worthy.
 All of that is a crock, right?
 Because all of that is self-inflicted.
 It's self-imposed.
 It is in my mind.
 That's a on that side.
 It becomes a level of self-lagulation.
 Right?
 I'm going to beat myself up because I didn't do a good enough job, which means that I'm just
 going to continue to tank my worth in the process, right?
 The other side of that on the, oh, it worked.
 Look at me.
 I'm amazing.
 What's the big problem there?
 That worth goes away in five minutes and now I have to find somebody else to please.
 So any of those aspects, you know, the things that you're telling yourself, I need to,
 I have to, those are all going to be the wrong phrases in your head.
 It's a flag.
 What?
 Yeah, what does this person need?
 And why do I think they need it?
 Right?
 There have been many times.
 I've actually assessed a situation and asked myself, do they need anything from me right now?
 And many times answers, no.
 They don't.
 You know, what they need right now is for you to be silent.
 Don't say anything at all.
 Don't help at all.
 Another thing that I will commonly do is ask, hey, Brian, is there anything you want me to speak
 to on this?
 Do you want any advice on this?
 Is there anything you want to hear?
 And you know, I've done that for years now and I've probably had somewhere between three
 and five times over the years where somebody just said, no.
 I'm like, great, fantastic.
 Moving on.
 Most of the time people like, yes, I would love to hear something.
 But there's times people like, no, I actually don't want you to speak into this.
 I don't.
 Fantastic.
 Moving on.
 No loss of worth.
 No struggle.
 Oh, my gosh, they just told me they don't want to hear my brilliance.
 Well, who would that be about?
 That would be about me again, right?
 So it's a very easy.
 They don't want to hear.
 They may not.
 I may not know what the crap I'm talking about.
 They may not be ready to hear.
 It doesn't matter what the issue is.
 The issue is right now.
 That's where they are.
 Leave them alone.
 Right?
 So let me ask that question.
 It's great.
 Yeah, I wish there were an app like a Fitbit or something we would wear.
 But tells us our worth meter and tell if it pegs or if it's like, you know, sinks down
 and we can kind of monitor like a heart monitor.
 That'd be so awesome.
 That'd be great.
 You're, you're people pleasing right now.
 Stop.
 You're people pleasing.
 You're controlling right now.
 Oh, my gosh.
 No, gosh.
 That thing would be going all the time with me.
 That would be so hilarious.
 Oh, man.
 But yeah, that's just a great.
 It's not a catch all.
 But it's such a general rule of thumb.
 And it goes into so many different topics that we've covered over this year, just in
 that self assessment process.
 When I make it about me and not somebody else, that there's something going on.
 I'm going to be in that victim mentality or I'm going to be pushing and, you know, putting
 pressure on others or, you know, there's this tug of war going on inside me.
 I got to just let go of that and go, okay.
 I need to just relax here.
 Am I serving with an open heart?
 Am I doing it genuinely?
 Is the Lord pleased with this?
 Am I making about myself?
 Am I getting something out of this?
 Or is it just a, you know, with with liberal openness and generosity?
 And, you know, so then that kind of brings us to our conclusion, Chris, for someone like
 yourself.
 And, you know, you know, you mentioned kind of being trained in that way, growing up, where
 people used to as a door mat.
 You know, and you mentioned that a moment ago, just in the personality types and how, you know,
 some of those motivators can can work in that way.
 Where are the breaks?
 Where's the limits?
 Where's the boundaries?
 How, how do I gently, but, you know, in an effort to be healthy with health in mind, put
 those limits there.
 What can I say?
 What can I do?
 So before I can get to the breaks, I feel like we got to hit something you mentioned at the very
 beginning.
 And that was, you know, my worth and man versus my worth and God, right?
 Scripture tells us to seek, to not seek worth and man, but to seek worth only in God.
 And that is something that I pray.
 That is something that's in my, my prayer life is that I'm only seeking worth from God, right?
 Or not worth, but approval.
 Yeah.
 Don't seek the approval of man, seek the approval of God, right?
 We have God, this is one of the toughest things.
 So many people do not experience a tangible God.
 You know, it could be because of the religions that they've come out of it could be because
 of the teaching that they've come out of it could be because they, you know, they can be
 great believers in God, but they don't experience him, you know, in a tangible way.
 They experience man every single day in a tangible way, right?
 One of the things that we have to come to an understanding on is that there is nobody who loves
 me, like God does.
 He is the only creator.
 We are all created.
 We are all created beings, none of us are creators.
 One of us are better than anybody else.
 None of us are more special than anybody else, right?
 God is not a respecter of persons.
 What does that mean?
 God does not look down at his creation and respect any of us.
 And I think people get really, really confused on that thinking that he does.
 Oh my gosh, if I could just make God happy, if I can please God today, he's really
 going to change his thoughts on me.
 Nope, God loves you as much as he can love you.
 He can't love you anymore.
 He can't love you anymore.
 He already loves you the way he loves you.
 He is the greatest pursuer of your heart period.
 He is the one trying to get you to understand his ways and to have eternity with him.
 He's trying to get you out of our ton of false teaching that's out there.
 Now it's just getting worse and worse and worse.
 I can't even believe the stuff I'm hearing coming out of pulp at nowadays.
 It's just getting so far away from God.
 It's ridiculous and insane.
 And he's the one who's continually trying to pull people away from the words of men back
 into the words of God, right?
 He's the only one who holds our eternity in his hands.
 The only one, period.
 He's the only one who gave us the opportunity to even have that eternity, to be crafted
 into the inheritance, to have that eternity period.
 He's the only one.
 But we spend most of our time going, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, here that Chris and I love God and
 he's amazing.
 But if I can just get Chris LaCordo to think I'm amazing today.
 If I can just get Brian Alex to think I'm amazing today, then I will feel so much better
 about myself.
 The boss or the spouse or whoever.
 This is the lie that we believe.
 Instead of getting our worth from the king of the universe who already tells us what our
 worth is, who already tells us how worthy we are to him.
 We see that we see that with the cross.
 We see that with the ultimate sacrifice.
 We see that with the cell.
 And by the way, biblical definition of love is not a motion.
 Only we as humans say that love is a motion.
 The biblical definition of love is selfless sacrifice.
 You don't believe me.
 Look up John 360 forgot so love the world that he gave his only begotten son.
 It didn't say God loved the world so much that he felt really good about himself.
 And he had big worth and you know, he made his days brighter.
 He loved selflessly.
 Therefore he sacrificed selflessly.
 As you look through out Scripture, you will find when it's pointing to biblical love, it
 is tied to selfless sacrifice.
 So when we understand God has selflessly sacrificed for us, what are we doing for him?
 If we're putting man on a pedestal, I don't care who it is.
 And by the way, I'm going to shock a lot of churchgoers right now.
 Those of you who are following in a 40 of somebody over you and that somebody is not Yeshua.
 You know, that somebody is not Jesus immediately.
 You're following pagan practices.
 There is no scriptural authority above you no matter how many people preach it because it's
 pointing to them.
 So think about who's usually preaching the man's authority over another man is somebody who's
 in authority, right?
 And then those people who believe it and go, oh yeah, that's exactly what it is.
 That is not what Scripture says.
 There is above us.
 There's no Yeshua is our high priest.
 We are supposed to be priests.
 We're supposed to follow that.
 We're not supposed to put any human beings on a pedestal.
 We're not even supposed to put them in authority.
 Take a look at how Paul speaks to this.
 You're not on my team.
 You're not on Peter's team.
 You're not on a policy's team.
 There are no freaking teams.
 Paul didn't say freaking.
 There are no teams, guys.
 There's Yeshua's team.
 That's it.
 That's it.
 He's the only one above you.
 I just happened to be in a policy because that's the gifts and talents that God gave me.
 Where are your gifts and talents and you're supposed to be bringing those to the table?
 If you're following this system that says, "Oh, somebody else is an authority, you're missing
 out on that connection to your God."
 Which means you're also listening to somebody else tell you that you're less than the authority
 above you.
 Oh, Chris, that's crazy.
 They're not saying that.
 Yep.
 By saying that somebody is above you or over you.
 When you look at bishops in the Bible, they were not.
 For anybody until Constantine, it didn't happen until they started melding pagan belief systems
 in Christianity, right?
 These are people who were supposed to take care of.
 Now are there teachers?
 Yes.
 Are there people who are supposed to be leading other elders?
 Yes.
 But they're not the guy who happens to run a business well.
 It's somebody who's operating in the gifts of the Spirit so well that you see it coming
 off of them or her.
 And that person is supposed to then help other people.
 They're just not over them.
 They're not an authority over them.
 Why is all of this important?
 Why are you even mentioning this, Chris?
 I don't even believe that's fine.
 Dig in the scripture and discover it or ask us some questions we'd love to answer.
 Why is all that important?
 Because all of that helps me to put man on a pedestal and not see God in his worth.
 All that helps me to put humans.
 Look at the show.
 We don't even think about a show called American Idol.
 What does scripture say about idolatry?
 What is screaming against it?
 And we have no problem.
 This show is so popular.
 I don't know if it's still on.
 But I know it ran for an incredible number of years.
 It may still be on it.
 I don't know.
 But we don't even think about something about making people idols.
 We don't think anything about making political people.
 We don't think anything about making singers, actors, idols.
 We don't think about making rock star pastors, idols.
 If we are going to get to a place where we can be healthy, not seeking the approval of
 man, not seeking worth from men, then we have got to understand a right relationship with
 the king, the creator of the universe.
 And that is we are his worth.
 We are his creation.
 So with all of that said, where do the breaks come in?
 The sooner I can get to a healthier understanding of my worth, my worth is in what God
 has told me.
 I am his creation.
 I am his son.
 I have the same inheritance that Yeshua has.
 I get to partake in that.
 Yeshua is my Lord and I'm going to ruin reign with him.
 I'm going to fall in line with all of those promises.
 All of those things that he has said over and promised over and over and over again.
 I get to be in that.
 Nobody on this planet is offering me anything that comes even remotely close to that.
 We can't.
 Nobody can give me anything.
 Right?
 So if man can't offer me that, why in the world am I making man so amazing and lofted up in my
 mind?
 Right?
 So where do the breaks come in?
 The sooner I recognize my worth and God, the sooner I could start seeing that my worth is
 not emotionally handcuffed to man.
 So if I'm going to serve instead of people, please, then I've got to start learning how
 to self assess me first, starting with myself.
 Where am I worth struggles?
 Where are the things that I'm gaining worth, losing worth, where are the things that I'm seeking
 for things in human beings?
 The sooner I could recognize those things, then I can see it the moment I'm going to do
 it with somebody else.
 If I find myself trying to people, please, or if I find myself trying to puff somebody's
 head up with compliments or whatever, I love what you always give me compliments.
 You still do that.
 I did the dishes give me compliments.
 If I find myself doing that, then I need to recognize I'm losing worth or I'm trying to gain
 worth in that moment.
 What's my struggle?
 My struggle is I'm not connected to God well enough.
 I'm not spending enough time with God.
 Right?
 That's where the break start to come on.
 So if I start to help somebody and I see that my worth is attached to it, put on the
 break stop right here.
 This is a waste of time back off.
 Now I think what you're asking is more of what happens when we become the dormant.
 If I'm helping somebody and they become a victim, or if I'm helping somebody and they become
 incredibly controlling, then I need to recognize what is this person struggling with?
 Are they losing worth?
 Are they gaining worth?
 Are they trying to control the situation?
 Are they trying to manipulate me in this process?
 If so, then instead of losing my mind becoming a victim, yelling at them, whatever, just go,
 you know what?
 Let me back out of this.
 So sorry, I was hoping to help with this, or if there's anything you have, the question
 why is great, but this is going in an unhealthy direction.
 I'm saying that this is becoming more about me trying to make you happy as opposed to
 helping with the thing that you're struggling with.
 I feel like the thing that you're talking to me about is how do you make better decisions
 over here?
 As I'm helping with that, it seems as though that's creating this situation where now you feel
 like a victim or it appears as though I'm experiencing this as though I'm your problem.
 You feel though I'm not giving you good advice.
 Whatever the thing is, right?
 I'm just throwing these out there, but usually what tends to happen is that somebody wants
 some help on something, you start to help them, and then they become a colossal victim,
 and start telling you how wrong you are and everything is perfectly fine.
 If that's it, great, let me just move away from this.
 Health, putting on the breaks is saying, let me step away from this situation.
 What you will discover very quickly is, and one of the things I always do, I had this
 situation recently where I made a comment to somebody and very quickly understood the
 comment I made was without great information.
 I made a comment and went, whoops, I didn't have all the information and I immediately backed
 out of it.
 So sorry, let me retract that, that is incorrect.
 I should not have said that very quickly, I'm taking responsibility.
 That was wrong.
 Let me back out of that, right?
 You have to start with you, did you do something wrong and if so take responsibility like you
 should solve it?
 But what if it isn't?
 What if something, you know, somebody legitimately is coming to you asking for help, you're
 helping them, you're giving them advice.
 It's quality, healthy advice, and they become a victim.
 Then start to put on the breaks.
 I'm so sorry, I feel like this is, I'm experiencing this is going in the wrong direction.
 This doesn't seem to be helping.
 This seems to be something that's frustrating you or whatever, you're adding it.
 So I'm just going to back out of this if this is something you want to talk about in the
 future.
 That's okay.
 And start putting the, put up the healthy boundaries.
 What you will discover is, if somebody doesn't want the boundaries, doesn't want the
 breaks put on, they're going to keep coming up to you.
 They're going to keep attacking, they're going to keep pushing.
 They're going to keep trying to drive, you know, to a argument or whatever.
 Why would they do that?
 Because this is where they're struggling.
 They're trying to gain worth by being a victim and making you a villain.
 And that's only going to be unhealthy.
 If you're getting your worth for men, you're going to stick in it.
 Or you're going to receive it.
 And that's just going to, that's just going to really ruin everything that you were trying
 to accomplish by helping somebody.
 Tone of stuff.
 Tone of stuff.
 Yeah.
 That's a nice.
 It's a beautiful wrap up to what we're talking about today.
 And I think you've already addressed some of the other questions we were going to use to kind
 of conclude.
 You know, I wanted to ask the question about how do we nurture a servant's heart that's full
 of compassion.
 I think you've already dealt with it.
 And even it even explains, you know, as we get into the heart of God, his heart for us,
 we get our worth and our value from him.
 We build this natural, let's say a defense system and immunity towards having to please other
 people because we've got that part.
 We've got that.
 I hate to break it down to this level, but that it just been scratched already.
 And so we're not going outside of our relationship with the Lord to try to find that in other
 humans because his love for us is sufficient, his grace and his mercy is kindness, his sufficient.
 It fills us with that compassion so that we can make it about other people who are struggling
 and not about what we're getting out of the situation in helping people and then eventually
 being used by them.
 I think this is a, this is a great primer.
 I could see us tackling the subject again in the future, but man, if people have questions, specific
 examples or they want to ask about certain situations, they can send us any mail.
 Can't they?
 Absolutely podcast at christlickerto.com.
 We would love to hear from you.
 You know, it is something that are obviously, what is our goal?
 I've been doing this show for, you know, nine, ten years now, we just had our 500th episode.
 I will tell you, and I, you know, this is the second show that I've done.
 You may know of the first show that I did for many years.
 So why do we do this?
 Gosh, this is the, think of the topics that we cover.
 Think of the content that we cover.
 Sure isn't about people pleasing.
 You know, a lot of this is tough stuff, a lot of this is stuff to only to help people.
 And so we are just, we're blessed that people want to have this type of help that
 people want to do something with this, this information.
 So yeah, it's, it's, it's a love.
 It's, it's a passion.
 Love it.
 All right.
 Well, that's all the time we have for today.
 That is it.
 So what do we always say?
 Folks, hopefully this is helped you today.
 There's probably, you may be struggling with a lot with this, the things that we shared
 today.
 It would not be surprising.
 You may have some, some things going on inside, you know, as, as Brian recognized during this,
 right, you know, just the, oh my gosh, that's usually how it happens, right?
 In the middle of the process, oh, crud, that's me.
 I do that.
 Do not panic, do not fear, do not, you know, don't become a victim.
 Instead, what do we do about it?
 Listen to the things that we talked about here.
 Follow the steps.
 Focus on God.
 Focus on your worth.
 Focus on getting human beings off of pedestals.
 They don't belong there in the first place, right?
 Focus on those things.
 And then you will be amazed at how much healthier you will be and how much less of a people
 please are you will be.
 And how much those of you who have that servants heart get to walk it out.
 You get to be authentically you when you're not focused on pleasing man, which is way greater
 than than people pleasing any day.
 You know, half of my life was people pleasing.
 The other half of my life is serving and I served all the time.
 It's just now I serve for God instead of serving for Chris.
 You know, in the early years, I told myself I was serving God and I was absolutely definitely
 but I was definitely serving me as well.
 It is so much better when I'm serving God.
 So hopefully this is helped today.
 Take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next step.
 [MUSIC]