 On today's episode, one of the highest callings as a leader, why it's important and how
 you may be missing the mark.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 I can tell you we're having a pretty darn good day where we are right now.
 Today we're talking about some stuff.
 And if you listen to the front bumper, hey, you might be missing the mark on something.
 You know, sometimes we are.
 We're going to be talking about something that's super important today and it's something
 that is near and dear to my heart.
 It's something that I feel absolutely called to do.
 I feel like it is a calling from God and I feel like it's a calling to help other people
 because I believe all of us leaders are called to it.
 All of us business owners are all of us dads and moms.
 I believe we're all called to cultivate leaders, to cultivate people.
 Today we're specifically talking about cultivating leaders, but believe me when I say
 this applies to people in general, right?
 This is something that is super important to me.
 How do we make them successful, right?
 So we've got a power packed series of episodes coming up called cultivating leaders.
 And again, it's something that I have practiced for decades.
 It was great in one of our recent staff meetings how we were talking about how this is what
 we do.
 This is what we teach and how so many times people always wondered.
 Do they actually do the things that they teach?
 I mean, gosh, this is tough stuff.
 And it's a lot of focusing on people.
 Yes, absolutely.
 This is what we do.
 This is the kind of stuff we do.
 So it's also a huge part of our mission on our business period.
 So it's not just with leaders.
 It's with people in general.
 Our mission is to worship God by loving people and guiding individuals and organizations to create
 a perspective.
 That's what we feel like we are called to do.
 And there's nobody in the business who doesn't align with that.
 Everybody in our team can look at our mission statement and say, yep, that's why I show up.
 That's why I do what I do.
 That's why I'm here.
 So the point in group, that's why we exist.
 That's our corporate name.
 That is why we exist.
 So we've said this before, but whatever business that you're in, whether you sell a widget
 or you provide a service, your business does not exist apart from other people.
 For those of you that have come to our events, you've heard me say, I don't care if you
 have made a warehouse full of your widget.
 If nobody is buying it, you don't actually have a business.
 You could have the warehouse.
 You could have the stuff in it.
 But without the people who are actually giving you money for it, you don't have a business.
 So aside from other people, our business just doesn't exist, right?
 That's step one, right?
 And most of us can get there.
 Your clients, your customers, revenue, et cetera.
 But as a leader, part of your clientele is your own team.
 The people that are around you.
 You've heard me say this many times before, but I'm going to repeat it.
 It's your job as a leader to make who your team successful, not the other way around.
 Now, that's what I'm telling you.
 Your job as a leader is to do.
 But there's a lot of people out there that I would tell you that the job of your team is to make
 you successful.
 I just don't feel that way.
 Here's what I know for a fact.
 And I've been doing this for three decades, long time.
 If I make my team successful, then by default, I become successful.
 Think about that for a second.
 Get that in your head.
 Your job as a leader is not to have people who make you great.
 If you make them successful, then by default, you become successful.
 Not even great.
 Who cares about being great?
 Well, a lot of people too.
 But what an empty thing to focus on.
 Instead, if I make people successful, I become something even better, successful as well.
 That's much better than being considered great as far as I'm concerned.
 Now, I'm going to tell you a little secret.
 If you spend the time and effort, if you'll make the investment to set up your team for success,
 then because of the time and effort that you made, your success actually comes easy.
 How so?
 Well, think about what their role is.
 For me, what I tell our leaders is, you're not just our leaders.
 That we lead all the time, people clients, all that.
 Your job is to duplicate yourself.
 If you will duplicate yourself in other people, then they will be doing the thing that you've
 been doing.
 Now, obviously, you don't do everything.
 But let me speak to all of you on entrepreneurs who wore every hat as you were starting your
 business.
 At some point, it does you know good to wear almost all of those hats.
 In fact, you need to put on a new hat, which is leading people to success.
 So by properly, and I'm saying properly, and fatally, because most people do not know how to
 properly delegate.
 So let me say, by properly delegating two people, not just giving them something and expect
 that they do it and then asking them 14 times a day to get it done.
 But instead setting them up for success with a delegation, then they do the thing you're
 doing or have been doing, hopefully even better than you.
 If you're wearing a lot of hats, you're probably not doing it with the absolute best excellence.
 At least what we could do is set up people to be successful in doing the things you were doing,
 and hopefully they could do it a lot better than you.
 Now, if that scares you, leadership probably isn't for you.
 You should be finding people who can do the things you can do and do it better than you.
 And then your job is to make them even better at what they're doing.
 Of course, I didn't even make sense.
 If I get people to do it better than me, trust me.
 The more you help people become successful, the more valuable you become to your own business.
 The more you understand the needs of team members.
 There are more you don't even have to know and understand what somebody's doing because
 you will raise to a level where you can look and see where they need help.
 Where you can step in and provide and do things for them.
 Trust me on this.
 Trust me.
 I know it may not sound correct as I'm talking through it, but for somebody who's been doing this
 for decades, trust me when you do it, you will be amazed at just how easy it is for you
 to become successful at helping other people, even if you don't know all the ins and
 outs of their job.
 So this is important for us to understand.
 Now, a lot of companies aren't successful because the leaders are trying to be the big success
 story themselves.
 They don't spend a ton of time focusing out of the people.
 They're kind of like that captain of a football team who just wants to be in the limelight
 and make big plays single-handedly as opposed to that captain of the team who's focused on
 everybody else.
 There are several issues with the approach and here's just a few of those.
 One, you stay stuck in the leadership crazy cycle.
 You stay stuck trying to figure out how you can accomplish everything on your own.
 Ridiculous.
 Waste the time.
 Definitely is going to hurt your success.
 Number two, you struggle to get others to follow you.
 Hey, leader.
 If you want to know if you're a leader, turn around.
 If nobody's following you, then by definition, you're not a leader.
 Obviously, I don't mean physically.
 You understand the metaphor here, right?
 Number three, you're going to have to endure constant turnover if you're the one who's focusing
 on yourself.
 If all you do is focus on you being the one to make plays, trust me.
 You're going to lose champions left and right.
 You're going to lose decent players left and right.
 You're going to lose good players left and right.
 That's what's going to happen.
 Think about it this way.
 The team captain calls the plays does the interviews, brags about what a great leader they
 are, sidelineing the rest of the team that made it all possible.
 See if this is you as I go through this or maybe someone you know or leader you used to
 work for.
 They'd rather get praise than give it away.
 They want to delegate, but struggle to lead others.
 They want to be the boss, which I hate that word, but don't help others grow.
 Now we've got all that in more in another episode.
 I did a few years ago.
 So if you've ever listened to episode 362, how to set your team up for success, then it's
 a great time to go back and listen to it.
 If you've never listened to that, definitely go back to episode 362 and listen to that.
 They, however, were digging deeper right down to some core issues that you possibly wrestle with.
 And by the way, it's okay to recognize that it's something that you wrestle with.
 The key is to recognize the things that you do wrestle with because the sooner we get to
 understanding, taking responsibility, and then choosing to get past insecurity and solve
 this stuff, the sooner we solve this stuff.
 Right?
 So that is what we're looking at when we come back, why the strategic aim of leadership is
 construction.
 What that means for your leadership career in the years that are still ahead of you.
 Hey folks, a couple of years ago I was visiting with a client and the CEO said to me,
 Chris, we're not going to hit our goal.
 I asked him what he meant and he said, we're going to miss our three year revenue goal coming
 out of Stratplanned by a few months.
 I didn't realize it at first that he was having a little fun with me by saying they were about
 to triple their company in less than three years.
 How freaking awesome is that.
 Folks, these are the kinds of results that businesses get by coming through our four-day
 Stratplanned events.
 On average, we find two point one million dollars worth of revenue in the next 12 months that
 the company was not planning on.
 This event is for all size businesses.
 If you're small, medium, or large, it works for every business because it's not industry
 specific.
 It's about gaining all the information about all the things inside of your business that are
 holding you back from success and then giving you a plan and a process on how to walk that
 out and be successful in your business.
 By discovering the things that are holding you back, it helps you get to all of those goals
 that you've been planning on for a long time.
 So if you're ready to get the perspective, you need to solve what's holding you and your
 business back so you can grow faster than you need Stratplanned.
 To learn more, go to Chrissacardo.com/Stratplanned.
 Alright, before we get too far into this Colting Leaders episode, let's talk about cultivating
 yourself as a leader and maybe even bringing your team along with you as well.
 The fact is that the more effective you become as a leader, the more effective your team
 becomes, which means the more your business will grow and with less stress.
 If you're ready to take a hugely forward in your leadership capability, then you absolutely
 need to check out our next level of leadership live event that's coming up this April.
 Registration is open and seats are selling out so don't push this off.
 The keynote lessons are geared to equip you to build high-performing teams, cultivate
 excellence in every corner of the business and grow your revenues.
 We'll teach you six truly transformative lessons during this event and you won't want to
 miss them.
 Sign up today at Chrissacardo.com/events and get ready for growth.
 Once again, go to Chrissacardo.com/events to take your business to the next level.
 Okay, let's get back to what's keeping you from investing in others.
 Well, actually let me go back to that ad for this event.
 Now reason why we do this event, that's coming up is because it is two and a half days of pouring
 into you in your leadership team, even your team members of learning how to do this stuff
 in a big, big way.
 That's powerful, right?
 That's why we do this stuff is to help people grow like crazy.
 So as we're talking about this stuff, imagine that being there, walking through not only
 the lessons, but we take time and do breakout sessions, the team jumps in and helps people
 to discover how to implement these things.
 It's just powerful.
 These are the things I want you to think about, right?
 As we go through this, how do we get you to the best leader you can possibly be?
 So point one, your highest calling.
 All right, leaders, are you ready to dive into this?
 Here's the key point.
 As a leader, your highest calling is your greatest challenges and possibly the most
 fulfilling aspects of your leadership role will be connected with one of these three things, making
 other people successful, then developing some of them into leaders and making those leaders
 those leaders into a team.
 So let me say it in a different way.
 Being a leader, a true, mature, successful leader involves a few critical elements and they're
 extremely high priorities and these will be incredibly challenging.
 I can probably see that.
 What do I teach?
 That's not challenging, right?
 That's the thing.
 That's the great thing I love about the people that listen to the show, that come to the events,
 that are in our programs.
 They're ready for challenging.
 They don't want the 30,000 foot view, puff me up and get me motivated.
 They're ready for, teach me what to do.
 What do I do with this?
 That's what I love.
 So this is challenging, but rewarding, to make people successful develop people into leaders and
 create a leadership team.
 Let me say that again, to make people successful, if you can and here's the one big caveat,
 you can't make a leader if they don't have people to lead.
 So there's no point in calling somebody a leader if they don't actually lead people.
 Make people successful develop people into leaders and then create a leadership team.
 Now CEOs, presidents, entrepreneurs, business owners, one of the best things you can do to get
 out of the way of your team is to focus on making great leaders.
 I have been leading leaders for decades.
 I don't lead the team below the leaders.
 The leaders do.
 I hit the term below, but the leaders lead.
 Let's just say that way.
 I don't lead those folks.
 I am involved.
 I am giving input.
 I am doing all kinds of stuff.
 But at the end of the day, my leadership team has to be the ones who lead everybody else.
 And that even means leaders leading other leaders.
 So I have some leaders who have leaders under them.
 That is going to happen more and more.
 You grow your business.
 If you do this successfully, what I think is the right way.
 I spend my time making them incredibly successful.
 My leaders.
 That's what we're talking about today.
 We're going to focus on just that first part about making others successful.
 First off, why is making other people successful so important?
 I hit some of this, but you may be thinking, hey, I'm just trying to get ahead.
 I'm just trying to be successful myself.
 Listen to what Ziggs Igler said.
 You don't build a business.
 You build people and the people build the business.
 Think about that for a second.
 Now I will tell you there are many out there that kind of take this concept and only focus
 on the people as being a tool to build a business.
 That is not ever going to be the thing I teach you to do.
 That is never going to be my perspective.
 That's never going to be the way that I look at it.
 I'm always going to focus on treating people well and teaching them well and leading them
 well and helping them to become successful.
 I don't look at people as tools.
 I don't look at my business as being more important than the people who lead the business.
 That run the business.
 That's just never going to be me.
 I just want to make sure that caveat is out there.
 When Jesus said, I will build my church.
 He wasn't talking about a physical building.
 He was talking about you.
 The people of God called to be on mission with him.
 Here's a different kind of spin on that same principle from Mark Twain.
 He said, "Really great people make you feel you too can become great."
 So think about it.
 By definition of great.
 That's always an important thing.
 If we're talking about great in the eyes of man, throw that out.
 Get rid of that concept.
 That's just crap.
 To be great in the eyes of man is to be put on a pedestal.
 None of us should be on a pedestal.
 No human being should be on a pedestal.
 That's just ridiculous.
 But if you're great in the eyes of how you help people, how you take care of people, how you
 serve people now, that's a completely different story.
 That's what we're talking about.
 I love what Twain said, but I want to change that last word to success.
 Instead of becoming great, let's change it to success.
 We'll just so that we can stick on the same vein.
 For most leaders, their greatest challenge isn't leading in the same as taking charge or making
 decisions or delegating or taking responsibilities, etc.
 Their greatest challenge is making others great.
 Their greatest challenge is making others successful.
 It's a build them into something and maybe that's your greatest challenge too.
 It's not surprising.
 I've been there myself in the early days.
 I don't know how in the world to do that.
 I don't know what I was doing.
 But here's what I want you to know.
 As a leader, you're in the construction business, folks.
 You're in the business of building other people.
 The sooner we get that, the sooner we can understand or have a better perspective of what
 our job really is.
 So let me get to point number two, what's the hold up?
 What's keeping you back from really investing in other people?
 And I get it.
 It's normal.
 It could be one of many things.
 It could be you have young leaders and early in their careers.
 They're overly concerned with their own advancement.
 That happens a lot.
 They don't even have to be a young leader.
 So thubs, you've got some older leaders or not have been around for a little while that
 their focus is just advancing their career.
 The person who's only focused on advancing their careers probably never going to work out as a great
 leader.
 So just things to think about.
 Sometimes it's inexperienced leaders.
 They spend their time asking, what can others do for me?
 They spend their time trying to convince others about how great they are in an effort to inspire
 them.
 It could be a week in effective leaders that boast about their accomplishments and try to show
 how knowledgeable they are.
 They try to know others over by being impressive.
 But none of that is inspiring, right?
 If you're dealing with any one of those situations, that's probably why you're struggling.
 So none of that's inspiring.
 None of that's what we want to work with.
 So what do we do about that?
 Well, when we come back, what truly inspires and motivates others towards success and how it
 will eventually cut up whole your leadership there as well.
 Hey, leaders.
 This is Joel Fortner, VP, a leadership development at Crystal Cardo's company.
 I have some questions for you.
 Do you as a leader feel like you are caught up in a crazy cycle of stress and task that never
 ends week to week?
 Do you ever have to deal with tough conversations with team members and you sit at home the
 next day, the night before worry about how's it going to go?
 What am I going to say?
 What are they going to say?
 Can I think fast enough on my feet?
 Is it going to be a total failure?
 Are you experiencing culture problems or that stuff that just breaks down trust and unity on
 your team?
 Well, if you can relate to any of this, this is a pretty typical leadership story in situation.
 Here's the thing though.
 It doesn't have to be that way and we can help you solve these things.
 We can help you become the leader that solves these problems and leads 13 to greater
 success.
 I want to introduce you to the key leaders program.
 This is an ongoing leadership development program that gives you the lesson track, coaching
 and accountability you need to become the leader you can become to actually implement what
 you're actually learning in this program.
 Things fall apart without great leadership and intentionality.
 If you want to solve the problems that are holding you back from being a great leader, we
 can help you with this program, get in touch, Joel, at crystalcardo.com.
 We've talked about immature and egocentric leaders, who wants to follow a leader that's
 only concerned about their own personal gain, right?
 Not many do.
 Let's move on to healthy and mature leaders.
 What does that look like?
 What does it look like?
 Well, Chris, you kind of left us hanging there on this.
 What are those are the leaders that I have?
 What we're going to get there?
 We're going to talk through, what does it look like to hopefully either change the way that
 they see things, or if it ultimately they can't get there, then we have to make decisions on
 whether or not they should be in leadership.
 One of the greatest stories I know of comes from scripture, comes from Yeshua, comes from
 Jesus.
 If you think about on the night during his Passover dinner, there was a point that he got up,
 and he wrapped the towel around himself, and he got down and he washed the people he was
 leading.
 He washed their feet.
 And I can tell you, as somebody who's been teaching Bible for decades, this is something that
 confuses and it confused me as well.
 The words that Yeshua is saying, and they're because it seems so odd why are you doing this,
 right?
 And we even see Peter's response to this.
 We see this confusion that's happening in the disciples.
 We see this as just this difficult thing.
 And we see Yeshua's response.
 If you understand this, if you have ears to hear, if you are in the right frame of mind, you're
 going to get this, what I'm trying to do here.
 The concept wasn't, and as somebody who's been a part of many foot washings, almost as a task
 from time to time, because it was led in a, hey, we're supposed to do this because Jesus did
 this.
 That wasn't the point that he was making.
 The point that he was making.
 So let me kind of back up a little bit and talk about Middle Eastern culture.
 And this makes a whole lot of sense when we look at Mary washing Yeshua's feet, Jesus'
 feet with her tears, right?
 And wiping away with her hair.
 And we see him say something that's really important when the hosts start, you know,
 slamming Mary for doing this, right?
 What is, what does Jesus say?
 Since the moment I came in here, you've not even offered me water to wash up.
 You've not offered me the ability to wash my feet, right?
 These are things you've not done yet.
 Well, here's an important thing to understand.
 In that culture, it was hospitality.
 It was super important to provide the ability and sometimes wash the feet of the, the
 invited guests, right, that have come in.
 But at the very least, you offer the ability for them to wash their own feet, right?
 And so interestingly, what we see Jesus doing is what?
 Now who is he?
 He's God.
 He's the most powerful being in that room.
 He is righteous.
 He is holy.
 He is not technically supposed to be there for this whole situation, but he chose to be
 to become that ultimate sacrifice, right?
 So his birth and death are the most embarrassing and, you know, just ridiculous because if
 we would just do what God asked, then wouldn't have had to happen.
 However, he's very aware that we can't do that.
 He's completely aware and that's why he chose to come down and take all that away from us, right?
 So here we have the most powerful person in the room.
 By far, no doubt about it.
 He's God.
 Take it on human form.
 And what does he choose to do?
 He chooses to teach his disciples what it means to serve.
 What it means to get down and do something very lowly.
 Wash their feet.
 We can see the responses and see that it is considered to be something that is well beneath
 him, no pun intended.
 And yet that's the point that he's trying to make.
 Leader, you need to understand from the greatest example we've ever had.
 Your job is to serve.
 Your job is not to promote you.
 Your job is not to put you on a pedestal.
 Your job is to serve to make your team great.
 To help them be great.
 To help them be successful, right?
 If you want to show leaders how to lead, show them your vulnerability.
 Show them your willingness to do what it takes.
 Show them that you will do the stuff that most leaders won't help them to see that you're
 not above anyone.
 But that instead you choose to serve.
 I think that's just one of the absolute most powerful examples.
 The crazy thing is when you look at his whole entire role as a leader, right?
 Now keep him on his god, but if we look at him as a leader of people, every bit of it is wrapped
 around this idea of serving, of protecting, of challenging, of empowering.
 Who?
 People to a walk rightly follow his ways.
 No matter who tells you that's not what he came to do, just read the scripture.
 It's black and white.
 Listen to people who tell you that he came to tell you you don't have to focus on him.
 No, that's exactly what he did say.
 My disciples will follow my ways.
 No ifsans are about that and there's never time to change that.
 He came to empower people to challenge them, to serve them, to protect them, to follow his
 ways, and so that they can be more than they actually were.
 Folks, that's inspiring.
 That is the mature leadership that we need.
 That is what I aspire to be.
 That is what I hope to be.
 When I get to the end of this thing, man, I really hope I can look back on my life.
 I'm very glad that I can look back on my life and say that I am enjoying the journey of becoming
 more humble, more vulnerable, more Christlike, a better leader.
 I hope that at the end of this thing, I get to look back and instead of seeing me, I get to
 see lots of change lives, lots of influenced lives.
 So that's what we should strive for.
 Part three, how do you serve others?
 Well, you've got to learn to ask what can I the leader do for you, the follower, not the other way around.
 Of course, you're not going to go very far unless you follow what Teddy Roosevelt said, what
 his advice was, which was, people don't care how much you know until they know how much
 you care and that's something we used to it when I was in youth ministry back in the
 90s.
 That was something we said all the time.
 Kids don't care how much you know.
 We have these people coming and want to razzle dazzle, yes, I just said, razzle dazzle.
 Wow, probably haven't said that in 30 years.
 Razzle dazzle people with all of their amazing knowledge of scripture, but then they don't
 care about the person.
 They don't care about the kids.
 And here's one thing we discovered, we knew kids don't care how much you know until they
 know how much you care.
 Once they know how much you care, then it's important to them what you know.
 It's the same thing with adults.
 So here's the same principle, but in in different words from John Bunyan, you have not lived
 today until you have done something for someone who can never repay you.
 Think about that.
 People want to know that you care about them, about their success, about their future.
 If you'll show them these things, they will follow you willingly.
 Actually, even as I say that, I go straight back to the brave heart, seeing where he says
 to him where William Wallace says, you know, you've got your claim to the throne, but men don't
 follow titles.
 They follow character.
 They follow courage.
 And if you would just lead them, they'd follow you.
 And so would I.
 Folks, people don't give a crud about your title.
 They don't give a crap about how important you up here.
 What they care about is whether or not you care about them.
 That's the thing that they're looking for.
 Guys, let me just, sorry.
 I'm taking so many, I'm not going to apologize.
 Let me take that.
 Sorry back.
 Can I tell you how, parents, let me talk to you for a quick second?
 Can I tell you how many adults come through next level of life that did not have a lot of
 time with a parent because a parent was always busy, always working, always providing, always
 got to provide.
 And as they come through next level of life, all my father was such a great provider.
 Yeah, did you need everything that was provided?
 No, no.
 Always getting stuff, always doing things, always this, this, this, this.
 Yeah, was that the important thing?
 Is that the thing you wanted?
 No, actually, what I would have loved is more time.
 Groned adults sit in next level of life and do not say, I'm so glad I had less time with my
 dad, with my mom and more things more stuff.
 Instead, grown adults sit there and say, oh no, I actually would have rather had
 more time with them.
 I didn't need the stuff, I didn't care about stuff.
 Things to think about.
 Think about your team.
 I'm not saying you've got to go spend all your time with your team and hey, they're now
 joining you on weekends, right?
 What I'm saying is this, they're not focused on your title.
 They're not focused on how prominent you appear to be.
 Their focus on can you help them be more successful if you can do that.
 My gosh, you'll have an amazing team.
 Now, there's an old saying that goes something like this.
 If you want to go fast, go alone.
 If you want to go far, go together.
 I can speak to that.
 I can attest to that.
 I am actually less concerned with how fast we get somewhere.
 I'm actually looking for how far are we going.
 What are we doing?
 What are we accomplishing?
 There's a reason why everything we teach is tough and deep.
 Because there was a time I used to teach high level stuff.
 It was great.
 But I didn't get people very far.
 I could step off the stage and have a 15 minute conversation that was more powerful than
 five hours of teaching, which is why the things that we teach are deep in their tough.
 And don't get me wrong.
 There's a place for everything, right?
 There are some folks that are only looking for that.
 But why are you following?
 Why are you listening to this episode?
 Because you're looking for more.
 You're looking for deeper stuff.
 And so that's why we do what we do.
 Please don't hear me say anything bad about either one.
 They're both great.
 They both have their place.
 But one of the things that I know got his called me to make sure people become successful
 by us helping them get there.
 Not just pointing out things and saying go do that right there, right?
 But your leaders understand that they will get farther by focusing on the advancement of others.
 So leader, you've got to learn to take others with you.
 Take them alongside you.
 Show them what you do, how to do it, watch them as they do it and empower them to show others
 to teach, mentor, and lead others.
 And let me say this.
 A big part is allowing them to fail in stepping in and retaching.
 Oh, gosh.
 What?
 You want me to do what?
 Why can't they just get it?
 I just hold them.
 I've told them three times.
 Hey, it may take seven.
 Guess what?
 There's many things in your life that took you seven, eight, ten, twenty times to learn.
 The key is, do they have the capacity to get there?
 If they do, it's worth it.
 Right?
 So don't get so frustrated because you told somebody one time how to do something and they didn't
 get it right.
 Mentor them, empower them, show them, teach them, lead them.
 When you see other people's success as an example of your success as a leader, then you're
 becoming a true person of influence.
 Does that make sense?
 The more successful my team becomes, the more influential I'm becoming or I have become.
 So I want to leave you with these three reflection points.
 Number one, when someone you serve grows out of selflessness and serves the good of others,
 you are a successful leader.
 When someone you lead gains more responsibility, including the respect of their team, you are
 a successful leader.
 And someone you inspire goes on to do more than they thought they were capable of, you are a successful
 leader.
 Not everyone that you lead will go on to lead others, but that's okay.
 You can still help them to succeed in whatever role that they're in.
 In fact, what I tell leaders all the time, don't put anybody in a leadership role without
 first asking one incredibly important question.
 What makes me think this person can lead people to success in that area?
 Do not make a leader out of somebody who actually doesn't have the capacity to lead.
 You can grow them, teach them make them successful, but they have to be able to have the capacity
 to lead others.
 So even if you look at just the way that they lead peers, the way that they're leading situations,
 even though they don't have a leadership role, that's probably going to be a bigger indicator
 to you.
 There's always asked this question before you put somebody in a leadership.
 They don't have to be perfect.
 You don't even have to be really good yet.
 What makes me think they can lead other people to success?
 If you can answer that question, you're probably moving the right direction.
 So even if the person isn't meant to lead, maybe they're sitting in the right seat on the
 bus.
 Great, fabulous.
 Maybe you don't need to move them out of that seat onto something else.
 Maybe they don't want to change positions, but you can still help them succeed exactly
 where they are.
 So you're going to have to have some folks on your team that enjoy their role that they're
 already successful at or have the opportunity to be more successful at and can help other people
 around them be successful too.
 That's great.
 That's fabulous.
 A small percentage of people are meant to be leaders.
 The rest of the folks still need to be made successful in their own roles, right?
 They may be perfect in their role.
 So don't go force in somebody into a role that they shouldn't be in in the first place.
 And my 47th caveat for the day.
 Don't make the mistake of putting the best person out of job in a leadership role because they're
 great at doing the job.
 People do this with sales team members all the time.
 They take somebody who's great at sales and make themselves team leader and that is one of the
 biggest mistakes she'll ever see in leadership period.
 Most great sales people are not great at leading people to being successful at sales.
 So don't make that mistake again.
 What makes me think this person can lead them.
 So you're going to have people that need to stay in their roles, right?
 You will however, has some folks that want to grow out of their role in into leadership.
 And that's what we'll talk about in part two of cultivating leaders in a few weeks.
 So folks, that's all we've got for today.
 I hope this has helped you.
 I hope this is something that's inspiring you to choose to put others first.
 Focus on making them successful.
 Focus on what they need and realizing that your success is going to come.
 The more you help other people.
 The more you help them get successful.
 So as always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 [MUSIC PLAYING]