 On today's show, what does it mean to set someone's reality how to stop doing it and
 how to defend yourself from it?
 That is coming up next.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business
 is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show.
 Folks, I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 If you've listed to us for any length of time, then you've probably heard me talking about
 making others successful.
 In fact, we just did a whole episode on this episode 504, which was just, I think, what
 just a couple of weeks ago.
 So, well, there's a flip side to this, right?
 There's a flip side to all of making other people successful, and it's when we throw
 obstacles in other people's way.
 Now we talk a lot about this as well and help people to discover what happens when
 that's happening to you, what happens when you're the one doing it.
 So, most of us have done this at some time in our lives, if we're being honest with
 ourselves, and we've likely had it done to us as well.
 We probably recognize when it's being done to us about a thousand times more than when we're
 doing it to somebody else, but still, it's getting pretty common.
 It's getting common all the time nowadays.
 What we call setting someone's reality is closely related to what is being called gas
 lighting.
 And I can tell you, it's either way, it's manipulation, it can be verbal abuse, depending
 upon what level it is.
 But here's the thing, gas lighting is defined as manipulating someone in order to make them
 question their own perspective or reality.
 And that gets really close to today's topic.
 Why is this so important to talk about?
 Because I've been seeing this a ton lately, where we're using this term gas lighting,
 it's not new.
 That's not a new term, I'll get into that as well.
 But there's a side to this where I want to make sure we're understanding what it means to
 set somebody's reality.
 And again, that's what we refer to a lot on the show and next level life and strap lines
 events and all that kind of fun stuff.
 But there's some things I'm seeing lately, which is creating this gas lighting as the ability
 to be a victim.
 And so I want to make sure as we go through this, we're recognizing the difference between
 the two.
 And I'm going to do that's my caveat for today's show.
 We're going to talk through how wrong it is, how bad it is.
 We're going to talk through all the crap side of it.
 And at the same time, I want to make sure that we keep the caveat in there that just because
 this is happening doesn't mean that you're a victim to it, right?
 That's there you have choices.
 So the thing to know is that people use techniques like this during conflict usually,
 always, I should say, always probably most of the time, it gets used when somebody's feeling
 out of control.
 You'll see it all locked.
 And I literally just watched some stuff recently on politicians who, instead, there's
 banter back and forth between these politicians instead of it being about the topic, it
 became about character assassination.
 I hope it came about one person being considerably out of control.
 And instead of discussing the topic, this person just started railing on how horrible this person
 was or these people were and what kind of people they were and all these things, all the
 stuff about character.
 But nothing about the actual topics.
 And I got to tell you that it's so frustrating to see that it has become normal.
 It's become commonplace for us to really rail in somebody's character instead of, I'm not saying
 that, you know, do I think that the person was wrong, absolutely.
 But what if they weren't?
 What if the character is the struggle?
 It still doesn't matter, right?
 Because what should we really be focused on?
 What's the topic?
 If you get to a place where you can't actually defend your position, then switching to character
 assassination is actually showing your weakness.
 It's showing where you are, right?
 It shows that you are unable to actually discuss the topics at hand.
 So this is something that I think is important for us to understand because what happens
 if that's where I go?
 What if I feel a lot of control and don't feel like I can defend myself against a specific topic
 or whatever or feel the need to defend myself and can't do it.
 And instead of actually sticking to either the topic or recognizing that it's getting unhealthy
 and removing myself from the topic, what if I just go to gaslighting?
 What if I go to setting somebody else's reality?
 If I do that, then that's reflecting heavily on my lack of control that I am feeling out of control.
 So what does setting somebody's reality look like?
 We're going to get a lot into this, but if we just used some examples of if I was looking
 at somebody, gosh, all right, now let me give a brain thinking here.
 If I said to somebody, hey, somebody's telling me, hey, Chris, you did this thing over here.
 And instead of actually addressing the thing that happened or even the accusation or perspective
 gathering, depending upon what it is, if I just, nope, that didn't happen at all.
 Nope, that didn't happen.
 Many times what you will find and this comes with very controlling people I've had this
 a baju in times of my life where if I'm addressing somebody with some healthy boundaries of,
 hey, this is something that's not acceptable.
 The response tends to be, that didn't even happen.
 That's in your mind.
 You made that up.
 That's something that's not real.
 And with truly good, good, I hate to use the word, experienced manipulative people or even abusive
 people.
 They can do it so well that it causes you to question your own reality.
 Did that thing actually happen?
 Is that something that's just in my brain or did it actually happen?
 And if it happened, then why are they telling me it didn't happen, right?
 So as we look through this and we see responses like that, we're assuming that the situation
 did happen, then what are we seeing what the person who's saying it didn't?
 They're out of control.
 They're trying to control the situation and they're trying to control the person by suggesting that
 the person's reality is incorrect.
 That it is not their reality.
 That this is something that they are making up, right?
 This is that type of reality.
 I had a phone call with a phone carrier recently where they charged me in incredible amount
 of money from something that they were not supposed to do.
 And I had a phone call on something making sure that they didn't charge me to money.
 And as they did charge it, I called in and I'm like, hey, you guys charged me.
 This wasn't supposed to happen.
 And the funny thing is that the person responding kept saying, oh, well, I'm sorry that you
 got misinformation.
 And I'm like, no, no, no, I didn't get any misinformation.
 The person didn't give me bad information.
 The information that gave me was correct.
 You weren't supposed to do this.
 Well, I'm sorry that you got misinformation.
 And this person said it over and over and over again to the point that I just stopped responding
 to it because I'm like, well, for some reason, as a customer service agent, you can't seem to
 handle this.
 The information wasn't incorrect.
 The information was correct.
 Handle the situation.
 I was overcharged.
 It wasn't supposed to be charged.
 But what she kept doing was setting my reality that her new information was correct.
 And the information that I was given beforehand was incorrect.
 Now why is this a problem?
 Because it's actually not truth.
 It would be a world of difference if I was given bad information.
 How do I know that I wasn't given bad information?
 Because it's been rectified.
 And it's been admitted after that person.
 So after having talked to like six people, it's very clear to five of them that this was incorrect.
 But to one person for some strange reason, she kept feeling the need to say that the information
 was incorrect.
 Instead of digging in and finding out who said it, what was said, what happened, was the person
 correct all of that.
 So instead over and over again, I guess it just made her feel more in control.
 And the phone call to say, I'm sorry you got misinformation over and over again.
 Well, that's what we would call setting somebody's reality.
 Now by definition for me, and again, this was just something that we call it.
 So we'll go with our definition.
 Setting somebody's reality is setting a false reality.
 If you're wearing shorts and I say to you, hey, you're wearing shorts.
 I didn't set you reality.
 If you're being a jerk and I say, hey, you're being a jerk, I'm not setting your reality.
 Now obviously, that's subjective, but still.
 If you're not being a jerk, if you're being super nice and yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy,
 I'm feeling out of control and I say you're being a jerk.
 Now I'm setting your reality because it's something that's not actually happening.
 Believe it or not, from time to time, when people feel really out of control in a situation,
 they will try and set our reality.
 I had a time years ago where a person, as we were going through something very tough and deep,
 turns to me and said, stop yelling at me.
 And I want, I'm sorry, I'm not yelling at you.
 What you're going to yell at me, I have absolutely no intention of yelling at you.
 Does this sound like yelling?
 No, but it's coming.
 I know you're going to do it.
 Now why am I going to yell at you?
 I don't know, but I can feel it's coming.
 And that's what I said to the person.
 Let me ask you a question.
 When you were young and you got in trouble with your dad, how would he respond?
 Oh, he'd rip my head off.
 Does the pressure of this topic right now feel like that?
 And you could just see this shock and surprise on his face.
 He was like, oh my gosh.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 So are you putting on me something that your father would have done?
 Oh my gosh.
 Yes, I am.
 Okay.
 Do you still think of good yell at you?
 No.
 Good.
 Now we can move forward.
 That is setting somebody's reality.
 That was him setting my reality and telling me something that I was doing that.
 Just wasn't happening.
 And then when he realized that he said, well, I'm that I was going to do it.
 When we talked to that, he realized it had absolutely nothing to do.
 You do with me.
 It had to do with the pressure of a situation that he was feeling, you know, or let me
 rephrase that he was remembering how his father would react to him and that brought up a very
 quick sharp response.
 As we walked through it, it became one of the most powerful pieces of his event.
 Because he could see that that was something he was holding onto for decades.
 And he could see that that's how he responded to other people when he was in those situations.
 So super powerful.
 Really important thing for that person to recognize.
 So if you want to recognize when your reality is being set and also know how setting reality works
 and how to stop doing it to others and how to defend yourselves from people doing it to you,
 that's what we're going to talk about when we come back right after this.
 How somebody's reality gets set and how to stop doing it to others.
 Freedom.
 It's so powerful.
 I don't rejuvenate and almost renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So I was very comfortable there.
 That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it.
 It's going to be hard.
 It's going to be even better on the other side.
 For me it was just a very refreshing and I want to say life giving to me and really was.
 You know I would go to the next level of life again and probably again and probably again because
 it's so powerful.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation,
 the same kind of self-awareness and freedom that they have or maybe you're just curious what the
 process would look like for you, then head on over to crsacrido.com/nextlevellife.
 Alright let's dig into how all of this stuff works.
 Let's discuss again gas lighting for a minute.
 Again the reason why I'm bringing up the term gas lighting is because this has become incredibly
 commonly and many times it's being used correctly.
 Let me just put that out there.
 Lots of times it's being used correctly but what I'm starting to see is the enabling of victim
 mentality through this term gas lighting.
 And guess what?
 The term gas lighting comes from a British plane in the 1930s.
 I husband in this plane rearranged all the furniture in their home and then denies doing so so that he can
 convince his wife that she's crazy.
 That's gas lighting.
 No I didn't do this.
 Yes you did.
 No I did not.
 You're crazy.
 Well how many of us have heard somebody say that to us before.
 Right?
 Well we know that we're not crazy.
 That's where that phrase comes from.
 So here's what he does.
 He dims the gas lights in the room in order to confuse or manipulate it.
 Now we can already see that we don't want to be this kind of person.
 Right?
 Hopefully as you're listening to this, this is something you do not aspire to be.
 Hopefully this is something you want to learn about and make sure that you're not doing it.
 But also make sure that it's not happening to you or how to handle it in a healthy situation.
 What it does happened to you.
 So later on it was used in a 1944 American film called Gas Light.
 This is how the kind of the similar plot of the last 80 years that has become popular in psychology,
 journals, and even put into the dictionary, explaining that under this this psychological aspect of it.
 Right?
 So gas lighting is not defined in by Mary and Webster as a psychological manipulation.
 The objective is to make someone question their perception of reality,
 leading to and this is very important subversive goals.
 All of us are just out right evil folks.
 But we see it play out all the time.
 Now as I'm talking about this, probably most of you are thinking about family members,
 people you work with, people you know, friends, somebody that this really resonates.
 But how many people have been seeing gas lighting happening throughout our culture like crazy?
 Like crazy.
 It is amazing that how much you're wrong if you push against the concept of love in any shape or fashion or form.
 You're a horrible evil person.
 Love is love and as long as you are okay with love being love, you're okay.
 Unless you love God, then you're a horrible person.
 If you love God, well then you're just terrible.
 But if you love in a way that is defined by somebody else,
 which is being able to love people, however you want to, and definitely going against God,
 well then you're an alignment.
 Is not amazing.
 It's so hypocritical.
 And yet how are people treated if they focus on loving God?
 Well you're just a horrible person.
 Isn't that exactly what we're talking about?
 Isn't that setting somebody's reality?
 You know the concept of abortion of being it's my body, it's my choice.
 And yet if you don't want to vaccine your horrible person and should be arrested and this is all
 kind of stuff we should go through because it shouldn't be your choice.
 Even though it's your body.
 Well what a second.
 How can that be so hypocritical?
 How can one area be okay?
 It's my body, it's my choice.
 But in this other area, it's not okay.
 Because you're a horrible person if you don't take the vaccine.
 Oh, but you're not a horrible person if you murder a baby.
 Help me to understand this, right?
 Over and over, we're seeing this.
 You're a horrible person and I'm not getting into the political debates here.
 But you're a horrible person if you want to protect the borders of this country.
 But you're a horrible person if you speak out against us sending millions and billions of dollars
 to another country to secure their borders.
 The thing I'm pointing out is the hypocrisy and the gas lighting and the setting of your reality.
 You are terrible when the thing that you push back on or disagree with goes against with somebody else
 agrees with.
 That is what we're seeing on an incredible scale.
 I mean, it's amazing.
 It's amazing how bad it is getting.
 So it's important to know it ain't going backwards, folks.
 I hate to tell you this, but sorry Christina, you can't put that genie back in the bottle.
 It's just not going to happen.
 So as we continue to see people use this in ways to set other people's reality,
 don't you think people are going to get really good at it?
 Don't you think people are going to start using this more and more and more because they're seeing
 other people do it?
 It's disgusting.
 It's evil.
 It's controlling.
 It's manipulative.
 It's abusive.
 And if we don't recognize it, we might allow it to happen to us.
 And that crazy.
 So setting somebody's reality is a little bit more subtle, but no less manipulative and wrong.
 It's something that there's so close.
 It's let's just say essentially it's the same thing.
 But we're always going to use the phrase setting someone's reality because the thing that we want
 you to know is that your reality has been set.
 It's been changed if you receive it.
 Right?
 If somebody gets through, so here's what we always say, nobody can make you feel anything.
 Gosh, they make me feel so guilty.
 They made me feel so whatever.
 Nobody can make you feel anyway.
 All they can do is highly suggest it to you.
 Right?
 And this is where again, the victim mentality of people utilizing the terminology of gas
 setting has really shown up.
 They're saying it as if people can make you feel a specific line.
 Nobody can do that.
 That's why we want to use health.
 We want to use the right tools if this is happening to us.
 The thing you have to understand is, since nobody can make you feel a specific way.
 The only way you get that way is if you receive what they are highly suggesting.
 If I highly suggest that the thing that you're pointing out about me is just wrong and you made it up
 in your head and you're crazy, well, if you receive that, then I've been effective.
 I have now really set your reality.
 I started with a lie, but it's now become your reality.
 So these are the things that we need to understand.
 And again, when people do this, usually always in conflict or almost always when they're feeling
 out of control.
 So another reason why someone might try and set someone's reality is because they want to get
 something that they want from the other person.
 How many times do we not recognize that flattery is setting somebody's reality?
 Not always.
 Many times somebody who's flattering somebody can be 100% correct, but usually,
 when somebody is flattering somebody, they're usually embellishing.
 So why do people flatter?
 Which is deceptive, which is antibiblical, right?
 We shouldn't be flattering somebody.
 Why? Because flattery comes with a deception of trying to get somebody to feel a specific way or
 to get something from that person.
 It's completely different than complimenting somebody on something that they've done well or something
 that they've done good.
 The intention of flattery is not a compliment. The intention of flattery is to get something from that
 person, even if it's just feeling good about yourself.
 So please understand, if you're sitting there right now going Chris is crazy,
 that's the same thing. No, it is not.
 If you do a great job while we're playing horseshoes, getting a horseshoe around the post.
 And I said, man, that was a great throw.
 Well, that was a great throw. You got it around the post.
 Great job.
 But if I turn around and I'm like, man, you're better. You're just better than everybody.
 I'm just amazed in watching you. You're so incredible.
 And the way you, you know, the way you arc that throw out of the way.
 This is now becoming flattery. I'm flattering you for a reason.
 And it may just be to try and win you over to my side.
 Maybe I think if I flatter you, I can get you to think I'm amazing.
 But either way, there's a definite difference. And the key is to understand when you see the difference.
 One of the struggles I have is when people try to flatter me.
 I usually shut that down pretty darn quickly because I just, it drives me nuts.
 Right? I don't like it.
 But there's nothing wrong with complimenting somebody as long as you're not,
 you know, again, there's no alter your motive.
 Another thing is that they might be setting your reality because they want to get you to do something.
 Right? Sometimes they want to get something from you.
 Sometimes they want to do something for you. Sometimes they want to get you to do something.
 It could all depend. But everything hinges on suggesting or convincing someone to believe something
 about their reality that is not necessarily true.
 This is changing their perception of it. That's the goal.
 So understand the goal. If we understand the baseline goal,
 then we can understand it and recognize that a heck of a lot faster when it happens.
 So it's a lie that someone tells to another person in order to gain control or even undermine them.
 So let's talk about that word perception. You've heard this phrase before.
 Perception is reality. We've all heard that. Probably most of us have used that from time to time.
 We use it a lot in leadership. If you're leading somebody in the person's perception is blank.
 Well, then how do we make sure that they get to the right perception or what do we do with that information?
 Perception is reality. Everyone has a mental impression of the world they live in. A world of
 view. It's how they make sense of what's going on around them. It informs them on how to interact with
 that very worldview, the very thing that they're experiencing. So this perception influences and even
 defines how we see something regardless of the truth.
 It doesn't matter what the truth is. And this is where I want to be very clear. This is where
 subversion comes in. This is where especially ideological subversion comes in.
 When people are trying to subvert your reality to change your perception to something
 so that you choose to change the way you see it. So that you choose to change the way you interact with it.
 If you believe, and I'm sorry, there's a lot of that that are probably going to disagree with me on this.
 If you believe that the world should have been shut down because of COVID,
 then what you're believing is stuff that goes against a ton of proven science.
 It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter what your belief is. The science has been out there 17,000 times.
 There's so many pieces of information that are showing that it was unnecessary to do. So it was
 unnecessary to shut down schools. It was unnecessary to do so many aspects. Were some aspects
 necessary? Yes. Definitely. The problem is, is that the subversion takes the smaller portion of
 things that should have been done and lumps all these other things in for control.
 And what happens is, is if you buy into it with how science without understanding,
 then you believe that everything that's being told is ideologically true.
 But what's the intention? The intention is to subvert your belief system with information
 that's not truth. If you tell a lie long enough, eventually it becomes truth. Now if you're listening
 to this going, man, I just I'm shocked, I'm surprised. Listen, before you assassinate my character,
 make sure that you're hearing what I'm saying. Were some aspects important? Yes,
 were they the minority? Abses think in lately. And it's been proven over and over and over and
 over and over again. Here's the problem. The lie was told so many times that no matter what the truth
 is that comes out now, people believe the lie over the truth. That is what's called ideological
 subversion. You lie so many times and for so long that eventually facts don't matter.
 Important for us to recognize because it may be happening to you and you may be doing it to somebody else.
 So here's the deal. We live in breath in the world that we create, the reality that we perceive.
 If we put on those proverbial rose colored glasses, then we see the world is having a rose tint.
 I make sense, right? It's what we're choosing to believe. Let's take a step further.
 Think about that concept in terms of negative and positive. Some people see only problems around them
 and others see only the opportunities. Why is that? Well, we talked a lot about this in
 our episode 5.05 called scarcity mentality. That there are people that can take the same exact
 situation in some sea, only negativity and other sea opportunity. So in plain language, setting someone's
 reality is suggesting that they are a certain kind of a person or that they behave in a certain way
 or their motives are a certain way or anything to try and get them to believe who they are.
 One of the phrases you'll hear a lot is, "Oh, so what you believe is this."
 Oh, I know what you're thinking. You think this. So what you're telling me is you think this.
 And quite often, a person is not paying attention. The thing that's being said has not been said by
 the person. Quite often, people try one feeling out of control with us as we're helping people through
 a very difficult process is to try and change the things that we've said over and over again.
 Well, you just said this. And if you do not pay attention to what's happening, somebody who's
 really good at that manipulation, you'll actually skip right past it. You'll not even think about it.
 But if you pay attention and somebody says something that sounds kind of like what you said,
 but it's actually not what you said. And they're going to now use that against you.
 If you're paying attention and you're not emotionally handcuffed with conversation at the time,
 you can go, "No, hold on." Let me, you can keep that. That's not truth. That is not what was said.
 Oh, that's exactly what you said. "No, that's not what I said at all." I said this over here. What's the
 same thing? Nope. That is not the same thing. When you're able to recognize it, you can see the manipulation.
 Now, keep in mind, we may need to look at ourselves and see if we're manipulating on this, right?
 It's super important to recognize that we're not doing it as well, right? So if someone is manipulating
 of enough, they'll reinforce this perception over and over until that person reacts.
 Until that person becomes angry, even takes a hold of it and believes that it is true.
 We create our own reality with what we think, what's what we believe and what we perceive.
 Here's why that's important for us to understand. It exposes two areas for us to watch out for.
 Vulnerability. Others might use our perception to manipulate or control.
 And responsibility, you have a responsibility to choose how you will or how you won't see things.
 Now, before we talk about taking responsibility and what steps you can take, let's talk about
 the responsibility that every leader has to grow and prove and excel. Yes, and that is happening right now, folks.
 The fact is that the more effective you become as a leader, the more effective your team becomes.
 Which means the more your business will grow with less stress. If you're ready to take a huge leap
 forward in your leadership capability, then you absolutely need to check out our next level leadership live
 event coming up this April. Registration is open and seats are selling out so don't put this off.
 The keynote lessons are generated to equip you to build high performing teams, cultivate excellence
 in every corner of your business and grow your revenues. The lessons are truly transformative
 during this event and you're not going to want to miss them on top of that. We do breakouts so that you
 can learn to implement this stuff right away. Sign up today at christacardo.com/events and get ready for
 growth. Once again, go to christacardo.com/events to take your business to the next level.
 All right, let's get back to putting a stop to setting the reality of others.
 One of the ways that somebody just something is questioning someone's memory. We've talked about
 that a little bit. No, that's not true. You're remembering that incorrectly. I'll never forget that
 a family member one time that was a lot of abuse and family. I didn't see this person for many
 many years and then when I did see the person, their first suggestion was that I'm older now and
 it goes in my 30s. I'm older now and my memory is not the same as it was. Just be careful because
 a lot of times people remember things in a way that didn't actually happen. It was so funny in that
 situation to just go, "Oh, geez." Very first thing trying to set a reality to tell me that if I
 had any memories of anything bad, there wasn't even a discussion. There was no discussion of the
 past, there was no discussion of anything bad. But this is a person who was jumping out ahead to say,
 "If you do have any memories, they're probably wrong." You're not remembering them correctly.
 The mind-place tricks on you as you get older. "Wow, geez. I'm, I go 33 at the time." "Wow,
 I must be really old." My memory must be shot then, I guess. Another way that people set
 reality is pretending that they don't understand. This is a fool that tries to be nuts. This
 is what it's like. It's a lot of times people don't even recognize it. But when somebody in this happens
 with a lot of people, if you're pushing on them on something, if you're pointing out something,
 if you're helping them to see something that they're doing instead of taking responsibility,
 they will do this, "I don't understand." This isn't making any sense to me. I don't understand
 why you're saying that. I don't understand. It just becomes this non-stop. I'm shocked. I don't get this.
 Instead of actually addressing the thing. Let's say you're putting in a healthy boundary.
 Many times as a leader if you're pointing out something for a team member that they're doing.
 Often in events, we're leading people and we're pointing out something that has come from them.
 It's their words. It's their thing. Whatever. And it's, "Hey, did you notice this?" I don't understand
 what you're saying. You know the person does understand. But it's become this thing with this
 tone that suggests that you're crazy. This one's a hard one for people to recognize. Until you
 actually are able to point it out. Again, this is what we do for a living. But until you're able
 to point it out, a lot of times people don't understand. They don't recognize it. They don't see that the
 use, the tone, everything in the situation is one of not taking responsibility. It's not actually
 one of not understanding. It's one of not taking responsibility. In other ways, you pretend that you're
 not listening. This is just, I just, it's annoying. You know that somebody sets a reality of,
 I'm not actually listening to you. I will tell you this, all my high seas out there. This is
 something that many high seas will do in imagery if they've grown and understood their personality
 style and they've probably or hopefully have changed this. But many times you will find,
 somebody acting as though they're not listening so that they don't have to take responsibility for
 the thing later on. One of the things you'll see with a lot of high seas is if they're immature
 and you're saying, hey, could you do this thing? Would you make sure that this gets done? There's no
 response. They don't respond for what purpose because if they don't respond and then they don't get
 the thing done, then they get to say, again, we're talking about immaturity. We're not talking about
 mature, responsible, healthy people. Then what they get to say is, you never told me that. Yes,
 I literally told you that. This was 30 minutes ago. No, you didn't. Yes, I did. Absolutely. No,
 you didn't actually say that at all. I never heard you say that. You were standing right there. I was
 talking directly to you. I never heard it. You didn't say it. Oh, drives me nuts. So here's what I do
 whenever I'm talking to somebody and if I'm leading somebody on something or pointing out something and they
 don't respond, I'll ask it again. I'll say it again. Hey, can you make sure that this gets done?
 Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Hey, next time in the future, just go ahead and respond to me.
 Just let me know that you heard me. It's just a good thing to do to good responsible thing to do
 is to let me know that you heard what I was saying. And the funny thing is, if it's somebody who's
 immature and they were pretending, then they get frustrated that they have to answer. Because now, it becomes
 a responsibility. Am I saying all high seas do this? No, what I'm saying is immature. High seas tend to do this,
 right? But it's not just high seas. This is people in general that pretending not to listen. Another thing is
 and this happens, who I think this happens about a billion times more than people recognize.
 People twisting other people's words. People twisting other people's words. Just enough, you know,
 what did we see in the garden of Eden, right? A twisting of God's words. The twisting was enough
 to convince them that God did not have their best interest at heart. It's powerful. It's something
 that abusive, controlling, manipulative people use a ton. Especially now, let me hit on the high d's and the
 high eyes even, especially for the faster thinkers, the faster processors. If they are manipulative
 and abusive and controlling, not saying this is all high d's or high eyes, don't take offense. This
 is not you. If it is you, I'll second up buttercup and take responsibility. The faster thinkers can
 have a tendency to twist people's words high, high seas twist that around and come out of really fast,
 and then they don't know what to say. Because they're hearing this thing and it sounds like you just
 said this horrible thing over here and maybe you didn't. Maybe it's just the twisting of your words
 and now it really sounds bad, right? So things for us to look at. Another thing is people will use
 phrases like you always or you never. Now this is what I have to be very careful about. You will
 find me many times catching myself because I have a tendency to speak in generalities. I think I said it
 earlier. This always happens, I'm sorry, not always, but most of the time this happens when people are
 filling out of control. That's what the guy said in this show, I have to be very careful. My intention
 is not manipulative, it is not controlling, it's speaking in generalities. However, that same process can be used
 from manipulation. You always do things this way and it affects everybody in a negative way. You always
 think that. You always, there's a difference, right? One is speaking in generalities. That's my
 60i in me. Us eyes, we like to speak like that. The other is manipulative and controlling. Or you never do this.
 You never do this thing. Gosh, that's super, super controlling, especially for talking about one instance
 one time. What if that is absolutely untrue? That's another way that people use phrases and
 situations to set somebody's reality. Now, using phrases like this are geared at creating doubt and confusion
 in the other person. That's the goal. That's the plan. If I can get you to doubt, if I can get you
 to feel confused, man, I got you against the ropes. I've set you reality. Things are now working in my
 favor. I'm now controlling you and the situation as far as I'm concerned. That's what I'm looking at.
 They're designed to undermine the person's perception of you. They're designed to undermine the person's
 perception of themselves. The situation, the reality as they see it. It's designed to shift the
 cards and somebody else's favor. Your favor, if you're doing this, these are things that we have to
 watch out for. We have to watch out for these kinds of phrases that are really failed accusations,
 things like you're making things up or that never happened or you're being dramatic. Now, let me just say
 that can go either way. This is where I want to point out again to victim mentality. If somebody's
 telling you you're being dramatic and you're not being dramatic, then they're being manipulative.
 If you are being dramatic and you're a drama queen, stop taking responsibility. So there's many times
 as you, like I say, there's people that are teaching now on the on the phrase gas lighting and they're
 enabling people to be victims. If somebody tells you that you're being dramatic, that is unacceptable.
 Not necessarily. What if you are being dramatic? What if the thing you're doing is being
 incredibly dramatic? Then you could ask them to talk nicer to you, but what if you need to take
 responsibility for being dramatic? Another phrase is your blowing things out of proportion. Again,
 this can be manipulative. It can also be very accurate. Another one in man, for those of us that have
 ever dealt with the abuse of side of relationship, a phrase that just rings true. I did that because I love
 you. Man, that took years to recognize. That took years to recognize. That can be, if somebody is doing
 something to hurt you, if somebody is doing something setting your reality, if somebody is doing something
 manipulative, abusive, and it's used in the term of "I love you." Well, that's not love. In fact,
 for those of us that are believers, what is biblical love? Selfless sacrifice. Love is not an emotion
 according to the Bible. It's the sacrificing of yourself. That's what love is. God, so love the
 world that he gave is only begotten Son. You'll show a Jesus love the world so much that he
 sacrificed his own life. He loved his father so much that he sacrificed his own life. So things to
 think about, right? Other phrases are, I don't know why you're making such a huge deal of this. We've
 all probably heard that. Many of us have probably used that. Another one you're being overly sensitive.
 So as we use these phrases, do I think that it leans more in the direction of manipulation than
 accuracy? Yes. Do I think that the accuracy is only 5% of the time? Nope. This may be a 64.
 Right? This may be a 64. So the thing is, is we have to learn better ways of communicating.
 Instead of making accusations and telling somebody how they are, instead we have to find a
 better way to communicate. I don't have to tell you that you're being overly sensitive.
 There's a much easier way for me to handle that. And it comes in the form of asking a question.
 Let me ask you, is your response equal to the situation? Now, I didn't accuse you.
 Now, I didn't set your reality. If you're being overly sensitive and I ask you the question,
 are you being overly sensitive? Is your response equal to the situation and you can as an adult
 evaluate, then you should get to a really good answer pretty quickly? Yes. Yes. I'm being overly sensitive.
 Oh, well, there you are. Well, okay. What do we do about that? So it's important for us to not
 allow ourselves to be victims in this situation and for us to not use phrases that really sound like
 we're setting somebody's reality even though we may not be. Right? So we have to use the tools instead
 of telling somebody ask questions that will help them. Right? So behind these failed accusations as the
 intention is say that they are lying that they're missing obvious information or just disregarding
 it intentionally or overacting or being out of control. Right? So the person whose reality is being
 set by others may be reactive at first. They might be surprised. They might be confused. They might be angry.
 Then slowly they'll start to question what's real or what's true about themselves, the situation,
 or how others proceed them. Then they'll start to accept this new reality if it's worked. Even if
 it's not true and soon they're going to feel that something's wrong with them. They're going to get
 caught in this circular arguments of negative self-talking their heads. They're going to get exhausted by
 thinking that maybe they're going crazy. I can tell you I had that long time ago with this constant
 suggestion that I what I was seeing was not reality. I kept questioning is it not reality?
 Is it just me and my crazy until it was pointed out by somebody else in the mix? This is reality.
 This is happening. You aren't crazy. You are saying this. So if it lasts long enough then somebody can
 absolutely believe that it is real. You know that the thing that they're seeing is not true. It's not actually
 happening. Eventually that person whose reality is routinely set by others will start to show signs of low
 self-worth, demolization and emotional dependence on the views are which is really many times if it's
 an abusive person. If it's beyond just manipulation and it's stepped into abuse that's exactly what an
 abuse or wants is that emotional dependence. The crazy thing is this is lying. It doesn't matter.
 If you're lying about somebody's reality you're lying. It doesn't matter. It's manipulation.
 It's even abuse in many situations. And in some situations and possibly a good number of them,
 it's even brainwashing. I'm just going to say it. It's brainwashing. That doesn't mean that you get to
 be a victim and allow to be brainwashing. If it's happening and you do not believe it's truth and you
 have to do something like setting healthy boundaries. If the boundaries aren't being set because
 the person is stronger, abusively than you are for yourself and you need to find help to discover if it's
 truth. That's one great thing as we've had a good number of people come through next
 love of life. Knowing things were wrong in a relationship. Knowing that they were with somebody abusive.
 Knowing that they were with somebody super manipulative and discovered ways to put in healthy boundaries.
 We even had the abusers come through and fight and fight and fight with color, fighting in a
 wet paper bag. Fight, fight, fight, fight, fight that they want abusive. I only discover. Yep, that's exactly
 what they're doing. And we've had lots of people come through that have none of that going out in their
 life which is also great things. Now that we've uncovered some of the motives, some of the phrases and
 intended results, we can cut this out of our behavior. The next time that there's conflict
 that you're feeling out of control or you're trying to convince someone, examine your motives.
 Why am I trying to convince them of this? Am I seeking to understand or be understood? Am I seeking
 the other person's welfare or am I just trying to justify myself and say face? A lot of times as the actual
 answer. Where's my own value at risk here? If I'm losing worth quickly, then I'm probably
 really trying to control this area. I examine your tactics. Am I distorting or withholding facts?
 Am I telling the truth in love as we should if you take a look at Ephesians 415? What does it look
 like to tell truth in love? Am I really listening to what the other person has to say? Am I allowing
 the other person to express themselves genuinely? Check out your own tactics. Consider the other person's
 point of view. How are you feeling right now in this situation? How do you see this situation? Why are
 you saying this or that? Why are you doing this or that? Describe it the way you see it
 because what you may discover is the other person's point of view is really good. I was watching
 a great conversation with a multi-decade theologian, which again, theology comes from a hand
 right? But still, somebody who I actually respect and believe has done a great job studying scripture
 and had one specific belief. It was nothing major, nothing crazy. But one person pushed back and said,
 "Could it possibly be this?" And that person said, "Wow, never saw that way before, you just swayed me."
 No self-protection, no defensiveness, no struggle in having to be right or can't be wrong,
 was able to listen to something that they have already had an opinion on for decades and go,
 "Wow, that's a really good piece of information that I didn't have." Why are we not like that?
 What do we struggle with that? It's not that difficult, people. If you're not emotionally attached
 to the conversation, if you're not struggling with having to be right or I can't be wrong,
 then when new quality information comes about, you just might see it that way.
 So consider the other person's point of view. Now, when we come back, how to disarm the reality
 setting attacks of others against you?
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue
 when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having a lack
 of high quality communication. To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life,
 it all starts with having great communication. The best way to get that communication is to
 understand your personality style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're
 spending the most time with, whether it be at work, whether it be at home. The best way to do that
 is to go to Chrissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and personality profiles
 for your team two day. Get it for your family members. Today, as you go through that profile,
 you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate. Go to Chrissacrittle.com/store2day.
 Folks, I've been doing this a long time. We've seen hundreds of people come in for a next
 of a life event who were bruised, broken and hurting and we've already done over 500 events.
 It's just amazing. One-on-one. Sometimes people bring their spouse in, but one-on-one events
 helping people to really heal and go through a great restoration process. Again, I've said this
 many times before. We've had people that have had horrible stuff in their lives come through.
 We've had people that had nothing bad in their lives go through. It doesn't matter. It's all about
 discovering how to have a better life, discovering things that might be plateauing you holding you back.
 And for a lot of folks, it's discovering all those things that have really, really hurt you.
 So it's been an honor to be part of their healing and restoration process. And in fact, this week
 we're celebrating 10 years of this kind of work. 10 years. Our team has some really special
 things in the work so that you can see in here a little behind the scenes. But I'm grateful that God
 continues to use us for his glory and for the good of others. So let's get back to disarming
 the accusations and attacks of others who tried to set our reality. Now, the thing that we have to
 think about doing and for some of you out there, you might not like this word, but we have to learn
 how to defend against. So I want you to think about watching it like a movie. Many times through
 next level of life, I hope people to do is watch it like a movie, which means you kind of step back.
 You're already know the person that's probably manipulating you the worst or the most often,
 somebody you already know. As somebody you've seen multiple times, it's somebody you experienced multiple times.
 And so what you do is, as you know what's going to happen, the problem is, is we get so tense and so worked
 up and you know adrenaline pumping because we know something bad is coming and we're going to have
 to deal with it and we get ourselves prepared to deal with it and yet that's not necessary.
 We don't have to do that. We can actually just watch it like a movie. You know what's going to happen.
 Do you know how they're going to respond? You know how they're going to be? You just kind of remove
 yourself from being emotionally handcuffed to the discussion of the situation and then you watch what
 they're doing. Here's the problem. People can't think fast enough in conflict situations.
 That's the thing we see all the time. If I could have just said this, two hours later,
 oh, I should have said this over here. Actually none of that matters. It doesn't matter what you should
 have said what matters is recognizing what's happening to you. So if you see something happening,
 like somebody saying, well, you always do this and your response is, no, I don't. That doesn't
 really, doesn't do it good because they're like, oh, yeah, you do. Oh, always, you're always doing
 that. No, no, no, I don't. I don't always do that. Instead, if you're able to not be emotionally handcuffed,
 you hear the question, you always do this. Not emotionally handcuffed. I'm thinking for a second,
 is that truth? Now, one of the things I always say is if it's truth, take responsibility. Now,
 the way they may be handling it can be pushed back on as well if it's not being handled
 in a healthy way, but what if they're right? What if they are accurate? Yes, I do always do that.
 Well, then take responsibility and it changes the conversation. Maybe this isn't somebody who's trying
 to manipulate you. Maybe this isn't somebody who's trying to abuse you. Maybe you're the problem.
 But let's assume that it's not. So what I'm saying is, let's get the victim mentality out of here.
 If we're being victims, that's not what we're discussing. If you're being a victim,
 suck it up, buttercup, take responsibility and do something about it. Stop being a victim.
 But what if you are being truly manipulated? You always do this. Do I?
 That's not truth. I've got the situation this, this, this, this, this. Hey, I'm sorry. You can keep that.
 This is the defending yourself part. Hey, you can keep that. That's not truth.
 I don't always do that. Now, here's the funny thing. This is a first off. All of my S's and C's,
 right now that are listening to this, you're going, oh, I could never do that.
 Guys, I'm a high S. My highest is S. I want you to understand. I am very confident in life
 because I do the things that we teach. I've been able to flip this stuff around and become healthier
 by doing the things that I've taught for decades. That's why I'm able to be confident. That's why
 I'm able to listen to somebody instead of getting emotionally handcuffed and I'm not saying that I don't
 ever. There are times that I have. There are times that I do. But if you do these things, I know you think
 that you can't, you can. So the key is listening. And when it happens, give it back to the person.
 I'm sorry, I'm not going to receive that. This is one of the things that will blow a controlling or abusive
 person away. I'll never forget to a family member once when I said, I'm not going to receive that.
 That's a lie. And that person just blew what what what what what what what what what what what what what
 what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what
 what you mean you're not going to receive it. Think of what that type of response is. No, you're supposed
 to receive it. Right? That's what that's saying. What do you mean you're not going to receive it? This is
 somebody who's been an expert at controlling people. Right? So when I just saw what they were going to do,
 knew what they were going to do. And the moment they did it, I just gave it right back. No, I'm
 sorry, I'm not going to receive that. That's a lie. This person lost their mind. They didn't know
 what to do. They didn't know how to act. They couldn't speak coherently at that point. Why? Because
 nobody had done that before. Nobody had pushed back on them like that before. Nobody had shown them
 their own tactics and then didn't receive them. This is what's so vitally important for us to do
 for you to do. Watch it like a movie. See what's going on. And then give it right back.
 Hey, that's not truth. I'm not going to receive that again with the assumption that you've
 made sure it's not true. I'm not going to receive that. You can keep that. In fact,
 I really don't want you setting my reality. These are things that you can do to disarm the attack.
 You know what else you can do? Leave. Now, for a lot of you, that just seems like massive conflict.
 I know. I get it. I've been there. But believe it or not, when you remove yourself from the
 at that point, toxic situation, it will be amazing how much more healthy you become. When you just
 look at a person and go, hey, I'm sorry. I no longer want to be a part of this conversation.
 I'm just going to get on out of here. And you don't do it in a tacky kind of way. You don't do it all
 emotionally flustered. You just leave. Now, is it possible that person is going to pour on the
 gasoline a hundred percent? Do not respond. Don't be drawn in. That's their goal. Their goal is to draw
 you in. The more gasoline is to get you to respond is to get you fired up. Just leave.
 Just get out of there. Remove yourself from the situation as fast as you can. If you do that,
 you'll be blown away how in control of you you are. You can do this. Now, let's kind of break
 this down. I want to make this disclaimer. Obviously, we're talking about people intentionally trying
 to manipulate you. I can't say that enough. I'm going to say it again. We're not talking about honest
 objective criticism by others. So, if it's something that is, many times people will come to me and say,
 "Hey, I need help on this." And I will give them honest and objective criticism. That is not about
 me. It's about them. It's helping them to see something and sometimes it hurts and sometimes it's
 stuff. There's nothing better. Man, I tell you what. This is one of the things that appreciate the most.
 As when somebody comes to somebody who is in a healthy way, trying to help them and is able to receive
 the help, the input. One of the most frustrating things is when people take advantage of that situation
 to take somebody down a notch, to hurt somebody to affect somebody because it's their opportunity to
 speak into this person's life and get something out of it themselves. That's just ridiculous. As far
 as I'm concerned, so I love it when somebody comes to me and says, "Hey, can you help me look at myself in this
 way or what are you seeing me doing here or whatever?" Sometimes it hurts though, sometimes it's stuff.
 But if it's coming from a healthy, honest, objective person, then great. What do we do with the
 information? Many times I'll tell people, "Hey, this is something you don't have to receive. This is
 that this is something you disagree with push back on me, so that they know that they have options. It's a
 great thing to do to let somebody know that they have options because sometimes if somebody thinks they don't
 have options, they think the only option is to fight." If they know they have options, then it makes
 it easier for them to receive quality information because somebody times in the past they've received
 crappy controlling stuff. So what that said, understanding all of this, there is a couple of
 steps that I want you to do. First, refuse to believe the lies. We're dealing with lies and accusations,
 so step one is to refuse the lies. You've decided that this isn't objectively true, but the other
 person is insisting, then you must refuse to accept that internally as your reality. Do not receive it.
 With the caveat, you've already gone through and you know it's a lie. If it's a lie, do not receive it. Number two,
 reject what's being said. You can do this. You can do this. You can do this. You can actually say
 out loud. I refuse to accept the receipt. In other words, I reject what you're saying as false or an accurate.
 There's no retaliation here. We're not calling the other person a liar, which sometimes I have,
 when it's a blatant lie, I don't call the person a liar, say that's a lie. So we're not saying you are a
 liar, which of course they're going to turn that around and say so you're calling me a liar. No,
 what I'm saying is what you just said is a lie. It's not truth. So make sure that you're not setting
 their reality, you're always a liar. That's not something that we want to do, right? But we want
 to make sure that we're not entering into the conflict with the same tactics or intentions that
 they are currently utilizing, right? But we do have the responsibility to ourselves. We don't want to
 undermine our own selves by not doing something. We don't want to betray us by not protecting ourselves
 in the situation. So reject what's false. Number three, reorient the conversation. If in fact,
 their intentions are aggressive and confrontational, it's really helpful to dig deeper. Right?
 Don't dig deeper into the lies themselves. You're just giving them your given them an opportunity to
 twist something. So right now they're just saying castles without foundations. Don't give them a
 foundation. Instead it can be disarming to reorient the conversation with phrases like, how we
 to understand what you're after. That's a big one. That is a big, big, big, big one. When you can say
 to somebody, how might I understand what you're trying to accomplish here? How might I see what you
 want to accomplish? How might I understand the point you're making? It's so funny. Again, when you watch
 people debate, if you don't pay attention and you're just responding to the thing that they're asking,
 many times an interviewer who's coming up with a harsh debate will say stuff to get somebody
 only to one point. All they want is the one point. This is the only point I want you to, I don't want
 you to talk about the actual topic. I don't want to get into the things that you're standing up for.
 I just want you to say this thing over here because if you say it over here then I have something to use
 against you. It's ridiculous. It's crazy. Instead, hey, how would I understand what you're going after?
 I just want you to answer this thing. Why? That has nothing to do with the topic at hand. You'll be
 amazed at how many people will all of a sudden realize, oh crap, you can see that. You can
 recognize what I'm doing. These are ways, folks. It's not easy to live or work with someone who's constantly
 trying to set your reality because it's just not. They need help too. They need help.
 But what you need to do is make sure that you're doing everything you can to keep you healthy.
 You are not in a position. If you can't keep you healthy, you're not in a position to help that person be
 healthy. Leave that up to the professionals at that point. When you get to a healthy place and this
 stuff bounces off of you and you're able to recognize it and hear it and set healthy boundaries and
 so on and so forth, then you might be able to speak into that person's life. But in the meantime,
 keep you healthy. You seek the perspective of people you trust underline, how like,
 star that word, trust, seek the grounding viewpoint of leaders if they are healthy leaders,
 seek the objectivity of those outside your situation, outside the conflict,
 who are definitely unbiased, if possible. For the love, so many of you know,
 everybody needs an extra life. Let me just say that there's nobody who doesn't.
 It is crazy, powerful, no matter what your situation is. You don't have to go through crappy stuff
 to learn better ways to walk out your life, right? Better plans. But many of you need to get your
 butts into the next level of life as soon as possible. 10 years we've been doing this and I can tell you,
 it's the most powerful thing we've ever done. It helps it heal, it builds up, it lifts up,
 it helps you to get to the next level of life in your life and also the next level in your business.
 So make the decision, right? Make the decision. Well folks, that's all the time we have for today.
 I hope this has helped you out. There's so much more to this topic, but gosh, I think I've got
 incredibly long. It's been a long episode, but hopefully it's been good for you. As always,
 take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]