 On today's show, taking a fresh look at the difference between perfection and excellence,
 as well as how failure affects both.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 We talk a lot on the show about excellence.
 We talk a lot about it around our business.
 We talk a lot about it at events everywhere.
 We talk a lot about excellence.
 We've got a whole episode or episodes dedicated to the topic, for example, if you go back
 to episode 425, you're going to get a lot on excellence.
 Excellence is one of our core values.
 Now we don't have a lot of corporate sounding core values, but there are a couple that we
 do have and excellence is always going to be one of those.
 Why?
 It's vitally important to us.
 It's something that we shoot for all the time.
 But as much as we talk about it, we don't hit the mark every single time.
 At times we do fail.
 Which brings up this question, asked by one of our clients recently, maybe you've had the same
 question.
 The question was, is excellence the same as perfection?
 Well, they can be easily confused, especially when you don't understand failure.
 And I know it appears as though we really understand failure, but if you take my version of it,
 I think there's a better understanding to it, which is it's not all bad, right?
 So that's what brings up our topic today.
 We want to distinguish between excellence and perfection.
 And that means that we need to define failure first.
 So when we come back, breaking down the failure so that we can strive for excellence.
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one
 issue when it comes to business when it comes to family when it comes to friendships is having
 a lack of high quality communication to make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect
 of your life.
 It all starts with having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand
 the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with, whether it be
 at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to Chrissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and
 personality profiles for your team to day.
 Get it for your family members today.
 As you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to Chrissacrittle.com/store2day.
 Okay, so let's talk about failure.
 This is one of my favorite topics and the reason why is again, like I said on the front side
 of the show that most people think of failure is always being negative.
 It's the elephant in the room for so many people because it's the thing that they're fearing
 the most.
 It's the big fear.
 What if I fail at this?
 What if something goes wrong?
 What if something bad happens?
 So before we can deconstruct perfectionism and finally get to excellence, we've got to start
 with some laws to help us to really understand failure.
 We're going to hit a couple of laws here.
 The first one is one that I take from Zig Ziglar and I just think it's fabulous.
 Law number one is failure isn't a person.
 It's not who you are.
 Do yourself a favor and stop identifying with it.
 I cannot tell you how many people.
 We work with that are so afraid of failing and many are afraid of failing us.
 We have clients afraid of failing us.
 We're here for the client.
 The client's not here for us.
 We're here for you guys.
 Our goal is to help you to get to the best version of you, the best business, whatever.
 So the fear of failing us is just it's crazy.
 Why?
 Because it's so inundated in somebody's mind that instead of focusing on what's healthy for them
 and the things that they can do and the ways that they can grow and the ways that they can fix
 things and change, it's so inundated that it becomes a concern of failing even those that
 are there to help them.
 The minute that you start rehearsing your failures mentally, they start becoming tied to your
 identity.
 Think about that.
 The failure gets rooted in your identity, then you're setting yourself up for even more failure.
 And I don't just mean some failure.
 It becomes like a self-fulfilling prophecy.
 It's something that's going to happen at that point, right?
 But here's a great thing.
 Failure is an indicator.
 It's a metric that you can use to measure by.
 Thomas Edison said, "I have not failed.
 I've just found 10,000 ways that won't work."
 Think about that.
 How many of us we fail one time and we're done?
 And as far as Edison saw it, he kept going because he hadn't figured out the thing yet.
 He wanted to discover how to make that light bulb work, right?
 He wasn't just giving up on his failures.
 He wasn't a failure.
 He was saying these are things that haven't worked yet.
 At some point, I'm going to get to success.
 What a fabulous way of looking at failure, right?
 Now the word failure comes from the 17th century Anglo-Norman French, and it means a non-occurrence.
 It was related to a cessation of supply or production.
 So in other words, failure is a non-result.
 A non-production, a non-completion.
 It's an action or a series of actions that are incomplete, right?
 That's what the word actually was created for, which has become so much more to us, right?
 See us, Lewis said, repeated failures are signposts on the road to achievement.
 One fails forward toward success.
 Man, if we could just stop right there and everybody was like, "Oh, yeah, get it.
 Got it. Good. Moving on. That would be so fantastic."
 But what's the problem?
 The lie that we are failures, the lie that our failures define us.
 If we have that in our brains that our failures define us, then we will continuously be fearful
 of fail in.
 I gotta tell you, that is something that around our place.
 We will hammer pretty darn quickly.
 We are absolutely all about failing.
 Why?
 Because you don't fail unless you're moving things around, unless you're doing stuff, unless
 you're making things happen.
 And if you're making things happen, then you're trying to accomplish something.
 And if you're trying to accomplish something, I'm pretty darn happy.
 I don't mind if you fail as long as it's not fail failures.
 And as long as we say around our place, as long as you don't keep failing at the same thing,
 figure out what happened and how do you fix it?
 What do you do about it, right?
 If you can fix your failures, if you can learn from it, then failure becomes one of your
 greatest teachers.
 And that's what we want.
 We want our team to learn from our failures.
 We want our team to grow from our failures.
 Why?
 Because if they don't, and they're afraid of failing, then what's going to happen?
 They're not going to move a whole lot of stuff around.
 I like my team taking risks.
 I like my team accomplishing things.
 I like my team moving things around.
 But the crazy thing is, if I find fear in failing, then I got to jump in there and squash
 it.
 Somebody does.
 Somebody has to because if not, then that person or people are going to stop or dramatically
 reduce the amount of risks that they take.
 And then I'm going to tell you, I actually, I like taking risks.
 Now I'm a calculated risk taker.
 But I like to take risks.
 And if we fail and it doesn't hurt anybody, it's not fatal.
 We can learn from it and do better, great.
 Let failure be a teacher.
 So we shouldn't be in a place where we get stock failure should be pointing us somewhere
 ahead of us.
 All right.
 Some place that we could get to success.
 But if we don't learn to look at failure as a teacher, then it will always be something
 that hurts us and holds us back and keeps us from being our best selves.
 All number two, failure is an action or a series of actions that are culminating in an event.
 So when we see that our actions don't bring results, we change our actions.
 Or at least we should, right?
 We should change the actions instead of stopping everything and backing away and beating ourselves
 up and all that kind of junk, right?
 The great physicist Albert Einstein once said insanity is making the same mistakes and expecting
 different results.
 So think about that.
 If we keep doing the same thing and we keep expecting something different to happen, well,
 that's the definition of insanity.
 I think we've all heard that before, right?
 But sometimes we don't really get it.
 So we need to make sure that we understand that if something is fail in, do something different,
 change, change your actions.
 If it's not working, do something different.
 The funny thing with Edison is he didn't say I tried 10,000 times at the same thing until
 it finally worked.
 He said there were 10,000 ways I found that it wouldn't work, which means that's 10,000
 separate ways.
 Right?
 So for looking at failure in the right light, then failure says to us, hey, the road's blocked.
 The bridge is out.
 Don't continue in that direction.
 Back it up.
 Rearrange do something else.
 Try something else.
 So to recap, failure is one, not who we are in two, it is an action that doesn't produce
 results.
 Law number three, which I pretty much hit a lot of law number three and law number one,
 but I'm gonna hit it again.
 Which is that the past failures can teach us.
 So again, those who are willing to learn from their mistakes can actually learn from their
 mistakes.
 Henry Ford said the only real mistake is the one from which we learn nothing.
 If we don't learn from it, then that's an actual failure.
 Colin Powell said, there are no secrets to success.
 It is the result of preparation, hard work, and learning from failure.
 So here's a deal folks.
 If you're not willing to learn from your mistakes, then you're not ready for excellence.
 Let me say that again.
 Let me pound that home.
 If you're not willing to learn from your mistakes, you're not ready for excellence.
 In fact, you're doomed to a life of mediocrity or a best perfectionism, which we're gonna
 hit that one too.
 You gotta learn how to learn.
 You gotta learn how to learn.
 You gotta be able to look at your mistakes at your failures and go what do I get from it.
 If you are stuck in the mode of I'm a failure, then you're always gonna have that as your
 identity.
 And you will always hold you back.
 And you will always live a life of mediocrity at best.
 Before the sad thing is, you may live a life of perfectionism.
 Now if you're out there and you're somebody who struggles with perfectionism and you're offended
 by this, don't worry.
 I'm gonna give you enough information to reverse that because perfectionism in itself is a self-fulfilling
 prophecy of failure.
 Why?
 Because nobody can be perfect.
 We're gonna talk more about that when we come back.
 So, for excellence in perfection, part ways.
 That's coming up next.
 Freedom, it's so powerful.
 I don't rejuvenate and almost renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So, I was very comfortable there.
 That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it.
 It's going to be hard, but it's going to be even better on the other side.
 For me, it was just very refreshing.
 And I want to say life to me and really was.
 You know, I would go to the next level of life again and probably again and probably again.
 Because it's so powerful.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of self-worthiness
 and freedom that they have, or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like
 for you, then head on over to Chrissacordo.com/nextlevellife.
 Before we talk about a never-ending pursuit of getting better, growing yourself and learning
 more, let's talk about helping your team to grow, to improve, and to excel at their job.
 The fact is that the more effective you become as a leader, the more effective your team becomes,
 which means the more your business will grow and with less stress, which is what we all want.
 So, if you're ready to take a hugely forward in your leadership capability, then you absolutely
 need to check out our next level of leadership live event coming up this April.
 Registration is open and seats are selling out.
 So don't put this off.
 The keynote lessons are geared to equip you to build a high-performing team to cultivate excellence
 in every corner of the business and to grow your revenues.
 Now we're teaching truly transformative lessons during this event and it doesn't stop there.
 We also have breakouts to help you to work on those things so you can implement them right
 away.
 So you do not want to miss them.
 Sign up today at crissacrittle.com/events and get ready for growth.
 Once again, go to crissacrittle.com/events to take your business to the next level.
 Okay.
 We've dealt with failure.
 Now let's tackle perfectionism.
 So we're freed up to practice excellence.
 So let's talk about the flaws of perfectionism.
 Now we're heading toward a conclusion here, but perfection is still in our way.
 So let's look at some definitions.
 Perfection is the relentless pursuit of a flawless state with zero, zero failure or fault.
 Think about this.
 Think about what I just said.
 It comes from the Latin and means to be complete without fault.
 Nothing can be added to it or improved about it.
 Exactly 100% correct.
 All of the time.
 I can see all you high C's nodding your heads in approval right now.
 Yes, that's exactly correct.
 Hey, anybody out there, tell me when you've been perfect.
 Anybody out there, tell me when you've reached perfection.
 Anybody out there struggling with perfectionism, tell me when you've hit it.
 And if you ever hit a flawless state without fault or failure, it's not just talking about
 one situation, guys.
 There is no perfectionism with one situation.
 It's a flawless state.
 It's saying that it's 100%.
 There's no failures.
 Every time there's not a failure, there's not a fault.
 So does that exist?
 Of course not.
 And yet we have a large part of our population that struggles with this idea that they need to get
 to perfection.
 That struggles with this idea that if it's not perfect, that there's something wrong with
 them.
 Now as I say that out loud, doesn't that sound insane?
 Doesn't that sound just crazy?
 And yet so many people struggle with it because when you're seeking it, it doesn't sound
 crazy.
 It sounds like the thing you're supposed to be doing.
 Unfortunately, nobody but Jesus has attained it.
 And yet why do we struggle so hard?
 So how does that stop us from getting to excellence?
 Well let's take a look at excellence.
 Is the relentless pursuit of improvement getting better all the time?
 It comes from the Latin and means to surpass what has come before.
 It's marked by outstanding quality, which means it's to be extremely good.
 Not perfect, but good.
 So here's what makes perfection so ugly and unattainable.
 Perfection is often an impossible goal.
 And it's an obstacle to really focusing on excellence.
 Think about it.
 These things just contradict, right?
 Somebody once said that perfection is the enemy of excellence and guess what?
 They were exactly right.
 Because to be perfect means that you can't be excellent.
 Well, Chris, if I am perfect, then I don't have to worry about being excellent.
 Excuse me.
 Once again, let's go back to the one of you ever been perfect?
 What if you ever known anybody to be perfect?
 What if you ever seen anybody outside of Jesus be perfect?
 You haven't.
 But I can tell you, in counseling people and coaching people, I have talked to perfectionist
 and pointed out, but you know you're not perfect and watched their eyes roll back in their head
 because it was something that they couldn't accept.
 It was something that they were struggling so heavily with because everybody in their life
 had told them how perfect they were and how great they were and so on and so forth.
 And yet when they answered, they would say, well, of course not.
 But what were they seeking perfection because somewhere in their mind it was actually attainable.
 Perfection is not attainable for us humans.
 It's just not.
 It's never going to be.
 It isn't now.
 It never will be.
 But excellence is absolutely attainable.
 It's also been said that perfection is the enemy of progress, success and greatness.
 But got agree with that and just keeps getting in the way of you getting better.
 As soon as someone thinks they've arrived at perfection, they'll stop pursuing a higher and
 better goal.
 So think about it that way.
 If you ever actually reached a place where you thought that you were perfect or doing something
 perfectly, there's no going past that.
 You're done.
 There's no purpose for a higher goal.
 You're doing the thing perfectly.
 You're good to go.
 Which can doesn't happen.
 But you get the concept, right?
 If you did reach that, you're in trouble.
 A mind set on perfection will focus too much on failure and miss the lesson it teaches.
 So here's where it gets really, really bad.
 Here's, here's perfection's fatal flaw.
 Perfection has a zero tolerance rule for failure.
 Perfection is wrestle with us all the time.
 I mean, like all the time, they can't stand the concept of failing, right?
 Because why?
 Because failure means that they're not being perfect.
 So when somebody struggling with perfectionism, they hate the concept of failure even
 more than the people who aren't struggling with perfectionism.
 Like failure really decimates this person.
 Because it means that they're not getting to the perfection that they think they should
 be able to reach.
 So think about it.
 Personality styles.
 Obviously, all my high seas out there.
 I'm hoping you're agreeing with me that you're hearing this stuff and going, "Yep, that's
 been me.
 Yep, I struggle with that."
 Instead of going, "Oh, no, no, it's not that bad."
 Oh, no, no, it's not like that.
 Yeah, that is.
 It is.
 Spend some time processing through how you respond to failure and how you respond to perfectionism,
 right?
 But it doesn't matter what personality style you are.
 It doesn't.
 It's not limited to a personality style, not to one, right?
 It's not just the seas that struggle with this.
 Everybody does.
 Not every person does.
 But every personality style can struggle with this.
 This thought of perfectionism, right?
 And how much it absolutely holds you back.
 So to make matters worse, perfectionism carries a lot of baggage along with it.
 Check this out.
 Guilt enters in because perfection wasn't obtained.
 It's easily confused with identities that of the activity.
 It easily leads to covering up.
 I know none of you have ever done that before.
 It leads to covering up to protect worth issues.
 It leads us to feel fearful and increasingly embarrassed.
 And as an identity trait, failure means that I can't be good enough.
 Look at the worth issues.
 Non-stop in this.
 Non-stop.
 Excellence on the other hand, hasn't allowance for failure.
 So long as it's learned from and doesn't become a crutch or an excuse for shrinking responsibilities,
 right?
 Grace enters in because we continue to pursue the goal.
 It gives us humility because we've messed up before as well.
 It enhances our creativity and gives us a sense of courage.
 It adds a holistic experience from both success and failure.
 And since it's an activity in our identity, we continue to grow.
 Like failure in perfectionism, excellence isn't an action.
 It's a habit and a pursuit.
 Think about what a habit is for just a second.
 It's really cool where this word comes from.
 So it's original meaning was state of being or condition.
 Then it came to mean the clothes that somebody put on.
 Think about like a monk's habit or robe.
 Then it came to mean a behavior pattern acquired by frequent repetition.
 So if we want to put on excellence wearing it like a robe, then we've got to practice it.
 Excellence is the highest way of doing things.
 That's where we get the word "excel" from.
 Excel is to become exceptional or exceedingly proficient in an activity.
 It carries repetition with it.
 That's why excellence is a habit, a pursuit of something that we practice continually.
 Someone once said, "We are or become what we repeatedly practice."
 And guess what?
 That's so true.
 We practice excellence, making it a habit.
 And in doing so, we improve every single day.
 Each day offers new challenges and new opportunities to excel to become better, to grow.
 So here's what I hope you take away from today's episode.
 You are not your past failures.
 So don't identify with them.
 They are not who you are.
 The failure is just an action that came up short and missed the mark.
 So learn from it.
 Perfection will take you on a wild goose chase and lead you to guilt and low self-worth.
 Excellence is the pursuit of something higher, better, and it has to be practiced.
 And with humility, excellence renders grace to others while showing the better way.
 So hopefully this has helped you to take a different look at perfectionism.
 Hopefully this has helped you to take a different look at excellence.
 If you can keep and hopefully this has helped you to take a different look at failure as well.
 If you can keep these things in mind, you can change the way you view you.
 You can change the way you view how you accomplish things, the things you go after, goals,
 being okay with failure.
 Hopefully this has helped you to make better decisions in life.
 Well that's all the time we have for today.
 As always, we want you to do the same thing that we ask at the end of every show.
 Take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and
 join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]