 Today we're going to look at the interesting and sometimes surprising takeaways of those
 who've gone through our next level life event.
 That is coming up next.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business
 is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 I can tell you we are having a fabulous day where we are, the son of shining and I'm
 joined in studio by the handsome and debonair Joel Fortner.
 Welcome, welcome Joel.
 So good to be back.
 And joined by the interwebs, the musical studio.
 The music we talented and well calculated only Aaron gets that one right there.
 That's right.
 That's the music baby.
 That's the music, Matthew Music, Matthew Music, welcome Aaron West.
 Good day.
 Good to be back.
 Thanks Chris.
 So today we are talking about it's been 10 years.
 And it's been a fun now.
 It's been 10 years.
 I'm just going to leave it at that.
 It's been a phenomenal 10 years of the boy main group and the things that we've been doing here
 with our business and just it's it's it's interesting how fun exciting and sentimental that this this time frame is like 10 years of just this.
 I mean this is not stuff that we've been doing for only 10 years.
 It's stuff we've been doing for decades, but it's just so fantastic that at this business we've been doing this for 10 years.
 And what we've been doing in making a difference in in people's lives in our own lives.
 Our families lives people's families all that kind of fun stuff.
 So it's exciting and we're going to talk about that today about people that have taken we've talked about the business side.
 Now we're talking about the life side, the personal life side, marriage side, family dynamics, all the things that people have done to take those to the next level.
 And we've we've now officially taken people through over 500 next level of events.
 It's amazing which Joel you had the pleasure of doing the 500th event.
 And without going into details of the persons event, how was it?
 Well it's actually really funny because in the event it was like, oh I'm leading someone through another next level of life of that because it's just one on one.
 It's just me and Brian, you know in the room.
 So it's like outside of it and the lead up to it and the discussions outside the room.
 We're all celebratory and cool, but when you're doing it, it's just like, oh it's I'm leading somebody through another of that.
 So and it was a fabulous event.
 Yeah, we didn't bring him in any balloons or anything.
 No, you know, there was a lot.
 So but it was it's just amazing to think about when we came up on this 500th event that we've been doing this a long time.
 Yeah, that's a lot of life change.
 That's a lot of families change.
 That's a lot of marriages that have been affected.
 And so just super excited.
 I go back and forth between excitement and then just being sentimental.
 Yeah.
 So in this episode, we're going to pull back the curtain a bit and walk you through the basic set of a life event as well as share some testimonies and transformations that we've heard both during and out to the event.
 But before we get there, I'd love to take a brief look at the history of this life side event and how each of you guys were impacted by going through your own next level.
 So Aaron, how about we start with you?
 What did you go through and what was it like for you?
 Gosh, so I had heard about next level of life for a long time being involved in the events and being a part of all that was going on with the leadership events.
 And I remember asking you Chris, hey, how can I get into my own next level of life event?
 And you're like, well, here's how we do that.
 And so we had a conversation and then in I believe it was the summer of 2019, we had my next level of life event.
 And about 30 minutes into the event, life change began happening right there for me.
 We identified some stuff right off the very beginning that just opened my eyes to how I had looked at things for almost 40 years of my life at that point and realized that there was so much I was missing.
 There was so much I wasn't even aware of in my own self and conversations with my own family and it just recognizing all of those things that helped me be a better individual that was holding me back before.
 And it was a great experience and my wife has now since been through her own next level of life event as well, which has allowed us to have some fantastic conversations as well.
 And so yeah, it's been fantastic seeing a different side of myself and looking at my life in a different way than I did, you know, even five years ago.
 It's it's so amazing first off, it's the best one, both spouses are able to go through because you have that common vocabulary, right, but having known you guys for what she's how old is area on it, I don't know.
 She is almost 15.
 Gosh, yeah, so it's been over 15 years or it's been right at 15 years.
 Yeah, that is that is probably some of my favorite events is when I know a decent amount about the person and just you know the stuff that we got to hit and dive into was just great.
 Any fears that you had coming in, we owe it's so funny because we always say the fear is always the same for every 500 events, the fear is always the same thing.
 Now if you're high to you, say I don't have any fear, okay, the concern is always the same, but was there anything you were concerned about going into it.
 It was so funny because you know, I've known you like you said, I've known you for years and I was like, oh, let's be real easy Christmas who I am.
 This is nothing nothing is going to come out of here that is going to be crazy or any of that kind of stuff.
 And I remember sitting in the chair, the very first thing and not suddenly had this fear come over me of going, what if he finds out something about me that he doesn't like.
 And I literally had this thought go through my mind of like, what is he going to think differently about me? What if what if he realizes I'm not the person who thinks I am and all this kind of stuff just started welling up inside of me.
 And of course I quickly realized that that was all just those fears that were that were trying to hold me back.
 And luckily you recognized those very quickly and was able to help me get through those so that we could have great conversations, but yeah that was the first thing for me.
 It was just kind of recognizing, okay, what is holding me back right here? What are those fears that are keeping me from having those conversations that I need to do have so that we could open these things up?
 I think it's so good for me.
 Especially, you know, I love taking our clients through, I love the experience that they get their family members, but it's you know, in seeing that freedom, it's so great to see the people that, you know, we work together.
 Day after day after day after day after day after day after day after year after year, being able to get that same freedom, so just powerful stuff.
 Joel for you, you will have to through gosh forever ago.
 2013, 2010 years. What was that like?
 You know, it's like that's a long time ago, but I remember coming into it, excited.
 We wedged your event between all sorts of things.
 Yeah, because it was one of those things, or it was like, you know, I believe we were talking about me joining the team back then.
 I kind of like a contractor working part-time capacity.
 And then once that was settled, you were like, hey, I want to bring you down and take you through this life of that.
 And it's like, I remember being excited.
 I think because I didn't know what I was getting myself into.
 Otherwise, I would have been crazy, fearful. Like massively so, especially as a high-eye personality.
 Like I'm about to get like into something that's going to be painful for me.
 I remember being excited going into it because I trusted you.
 I loved what you taught. We were becoming, you know, our friendship was was budding back then.
 And it's just, you know, exploded over the last decade into what it is now.
 I'll tell you, next up a life was, I mean, it was a game changer for me.
 I left, I feel like I left the different human being or the one I walked in, just because of what I learned.
 And since then, you know, coming and working with you for a decade and now, you know, doing all this for years now and leading hundreds of people, you constantly learn about yourself.
 And continuing to have growth within the company and having like little mini next-seble life like conversations over the years.
 Leading people and being like, oh, I do that. I do that. I do that. It's only added to all of that growth.
 But next-seble life was a core impact for me in my life.
 Because I mean, I went home, Mary Beth was like, I don't know what happened, but you're just different.
 I just really chilled out and became incredibly just more calm. I stopped doing all of the, here's all my information, all my heavy opinions, all of my, it needs to be this way.
 Disregarding Mary Beth's feelings at times and emotions because of my own selfishness.
 Just all this stuff that yeah, it was like really hard stuff to learn, but it was, I finally look back at that 10 years ago because it truly changed my life.
 Yeah, it is so funny as you say that, you know, not knowing what you were getting into and then experiencing it and then, you know, being on the back side of that going, oh my gosh, if I knew this.
 And so I'm speaking to all of the high eyes that do not show up because high eyes are the ones that feel the least. It's down let me scare you off.
 Gosh, you know, because, but the fear I said this before, the fears always the same. The concerns always the same, well I don't know what we're going to find out.
 And people will come in the door week after week after week after week for 10 years, people come in and I say the exact same thing. Well, I don't know what we're going to find out.
 And it's so funny because we always say, do you think we're going to find out anything you're not aware of, right? So there's aspects and so I think people are always concerned that we're going to discover something that they really hate about themselves or something that they're ashamed of or something like that.
 It's like you already know you.
 And our process isn't one of sitting in judgment. Don't worry about that. Let's get in there. And as soon as we get in and the walls come down and the vulnerability comes out in the trust, which I think is is by far the biggest thing that trust shows up immediately in people are like,
 Oh my gosh, I can't talk to you about literally anything in my life. It's not going any further than this. This is exactly where it's going and it's not about.
 It's not about talking through the thing. It's about discovering why it happened, what happened, how do we overcome it, how do we change decision making going forward?
 Everybody comes down at that first day and it's just like, okay, that was eye-opening. I didn't expect that. I didn't know that that was going to be that way.
 And now I have nothing to be afraid of. I have nothing to be concerned of. So I think that that for me is always just the fun thing. It's always funny. Because on the front side you're just like, you know it's so hard to convince somebody, hey, you're really going to chill out in about 30 minutes or though, but you know, they just have to get there.
 All right, when we come back, the 10-year evolution of our life events and what we learned about people after seeing 500 of these transformed of events and these experiences and how this thing came about in first place.
 When we come back after this.
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having a lack of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life, it all starts with having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with, whether it be at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to Chrissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your team two day.
 As you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to Chrissacrittle.com/store 2 day.
 Before we get going on more of the information that people have experienced going through these events, the testimonies and all that kind of stuff.
 But probably about 20% of the folks bring their spouse through. We always say, "Should I bring my spouse in our answers always the same?"
 If you can be 100% open and honest, it's not about being honest like you're hiding something.
 Sometimes some folks have some situations where they don't feel like they can open up completely and we're like, "Well then you just come by yourself. That's perfectly fine.
 It's not about you're hiding something you're doing something wrong. It's about, "Hey, how do we get you to the greatest impact in your life and help?"
 And so many of those spouses end up coming afterwards. But we also have about 20% that the spouse comes along and it's absolutely phenomenal.
 This whole thing started because as I started this business, I felt God calling me to this business and coming and doing what we're doing. I thought it was going to be heavy loaded coaching on the business side.
 I had been helping people on the life side for many, many, many, many years. It was just this, well maybe I'll offer this thing and maybe we'll help some people out on the life side.
 It was just something I felt like God was saying, "Do this, put this thing in place."
 I just thought, "Well that's nice. That'll be good. That'll be fun. We can help some folks up. I've been doing it anyways. Might as well open it up and it exploded.
 I'm just 100 events." And keep them on that. First year there wasn't that many, right? It was something that was just, well we'll just throw this out there and help some folks and it is just compounded. It's been amazing.
 The whole concept was, well look at the whole concept, what I thought God was doing is, "Hey we'll do it. We'll help out three or four these years, five of these years just to help out some people and God's plans.
 It's insanely greater than what I thought." Which is always God. It's always fun how he does this. And we put that out there and it's just exploded.
 And I cannot wait. You and I have been trying so hard to get more facilitators in and it's one of the, it is by far the toughest higher ever.
 First to get somebody in that seat. And we've had multiple people out of tried and it's just it's difficult role because you have to get rid of yourself.
 You, it can't be about you. It has to be 100% about the person sitting in that chair.
 We're excited that someday, you know, God has bigger plans and we're going to see that growing even beyond us. We are in the works. We don't know if it's going to happen this year next, but we're in the works of a live event that will not be a one on one.
 It will be a group setting. We don't know when that'll hit. We've got a lot a lot of work to do on that, but just super excited about that. So something that I felt like out was saying, hey put this out there and thinking, well we'll do a few of these
 500 events later. I'm just humbled. You know, it's just it's stunning to see where we are.
 So just for fun for the first year, we did 11 events and you did, you did them because in then in 14, we did 36.
 Oh wow. And those were just you back then. Wow. And then it just took off from there is that's when I started training on it and we started doing more events.
 And it was the first two years. Those were the numbers. Carcine to 30 something and you were busy.
 No, yes. Yes. That's just our plans with coachings with everything else.
 There's a lot. It was a lot. Gosh. Okay. It's a lot more than I thought it was. I, you know, just thinking about how many we do. That's amazing.
 Obviously, Aaron, we don't have you in the facilitator role all the whole that is something we would love, but we have so much stuff on your plate.
 It's just incredible. Obviously, and also we got to get you moved back to here.
 You're close to home. I keep trying to get it. We're in a way. We're just one day one day we'll get them back closer.
 But you have had such an impact on people. Obviously, you've been with me for so many years.
 On top of that, as folks come out of next level, I have so many times they've been, you know, it's they're also going through the leadership programs and stuff like that.
 And you've helped out folks on the other side because you've been a part of this for so long and you've been coaching people on this for so long. And so it's just really good to have such great people.
 I love that you guys are the ones I'm doing this with. So, and the rest of our team is just so powerful.
 As we get into this, all right. So let's take a look back. You just pointed out what it was like in the first year and the numbers that we've done and it was just, you know, it's a funny.
 The moment you say 11 events, I'm just like blown away something bigger than what I had planned. God had already, already planned it out and it's taken off since then.
 But it has morphed the original stuff that I put in place 10 years ago has become so much more powerful.
 And it's just the things that we have learned along the way in helping people and seeing where people are and the commonalities. So many things that we've experienced in folks that have gone through the events and seeing things that are happening in their families with their kids and so on and so forth. And it has just become.
 I don't know how to say just much more powerful of that. It has. Yeah, we've we've continued to refine it and make it fit the way that we help people.
 Yeah. And we've now know we've built the process to facilitate depth where this is so not a surface level experience. This is truly into how and why you respond.
 Make decisions the way that you do react the way that you do, think the way that you do. That's why it is for so many people. This is a healing and restorative event.
 Yeah. For some people, it's just powerful life changing.
 But some people come through this that have lots of wounds and they need lots of healing.
 And this is the process that actually we've built it to where we actually can teach and get people to that level of understanding themselves.
 Yeah, we always say this because it's interesting. It's like, you know, people used to say, "Oh, I don't need that that day Ramsay course. That's for for broke people."
 It is like, no, it's actually for people anybody who has anything to do with money.
 You know, if you have a lot of money, you really need to understand how to handle it better. If you're broke, you really need to understand how to handle money period.
 You know, it's that same thing with next level of life. We have folks that have never had anything bad happen in their life that just want they can recognize that maybe they're plateaued in life or they want to make better decisions or in this crazy powerful.
 And then we swing all the way to the, I mean, all levels, all different pieces to the other end of that spectrum of just horrid relationships, horrid situations childhood, you know, yad yad yad yad yad.
 It doesn't matter where you are on the spectrum, this is a powerful event either way, right?
 And so I think the things that I have loved and I want to come talk through, you know, just starting off on, you know, what are some of the things that we've experienced and.
 I don't even know to start, I think some of the most powerful things that we've experienced if we just start with the individual, let's just start there, the individual coming through some of the most powerful things are things that we just kind of talk about, you know, with the alls events and stuff and that's just that realization of.
 And I don't know what to do with, I don't understand why they happen.
 I don't know what I do with them now, but I do know that they're impacting me and they're affecting me in a negative way help.
 That's probably been at the end of the day.
 So my favorite thing is seeing the children that have come through as young adults of the folks that came through years ago, but I'd say probably my most, and that's my favorite just exciting thing, my most emotional.
 I think that the most important thing is seeing somebody.
 Have their eyes open to aspects of their life and finding an incredible amount of freedom, finding an incredible amount of.
 The ability to put in boundaries, the ability to understand the ability to move past and probably most important thing is so much growth with their relationship with God.
 Having a freedom there a lot of folks that have been through next level, if I say a lot.
 I mean, I think a good amount probably 20 to 25% I don't know, it's looked for you to weigh in on this that have got this hindered relationship with God because of things that experienced with humans.
 Yeah, we see it all the time.
 Yeah, it's just amazing how much that can affect that.
 But on top of all that, I think the ability to look at decision making in our life and go, so I don't have to do things this way.
 So I don't have to live life this way.
 So I can be healthier so there is healthier.
 I think that's some of the most powerful things that I've experienced.
 How much yeah, I think some of the most powerful are those eye opening and sight full. Oh my gosh moments that people have in their event.
 And there's a that can be a billion different things. It could be God. It could be their root system and being able to finally see their parents as just human beings.
 Rather than, while these are my parents and this happened and that happened Joel and this is occurred and this is what I'm struggling with now and this is what I'm frustrated about.
 This is what always happens when we get together and all this stuff that's going on in their life and then you can take them back in time and widen their view to like, okay, let's see you.
 Let's see them. Let's see the dynamics. Let's see how everyone's contributing to problems in the way that they are walking through all the detail and sometimes hours worth of detail on that to get people to a place of freedom.
 Where it's they're totally seeing people differently, they're seeing themselves differently and it's been there the whole time they just needed to be taught.
 You know, I think gosh, what do we show what are we sure people being able to see like you just said that their parents are human.
 I think it one of the toughest things is that for some folks, they have phenomenal relationships with their parents.
 And then other folks has been just taxing and difficult and painful and I don't understand why and why did this parent do this and how come this parents like this.
 I think one of the free things in life like you said is recognizing that your parents are human but then recognizing what their parents have experienced.
 We always say we don't make any victims, we don't make any villains, nobody here, you don't get to be a victim, we're not going to let you be a victim, we're going to walk through stuff.
 We're going to talk through stuff but we're going to discover how to solve things, you know what do we do about it, right? But we also don't make any villains either you may have had horrible parents and we can talk to that stuff too.
 You may have had horrible situations that happen to you, we'll talk to through that too, but I think either the goal isn't to sit here and rail on how horrible that parent is instead is to discover freedom for you, how do we get you to freedom.
 And I think that's one of the things that has been the most profound is folks being able to look at their parents in a different light.
 It does not just to find there's many times we say listen, this does not justify what this parent did to you, this does not justify what happened here in the situation.
 But can you understand what they came through just for your own and this is so funny, it's not again it's not for them, it's for you, for you to get freedom from oh crap, that's been holding onto that for so many years and now it.
 And it's easier for me to see they came from a really crappy situation or whatever and it just changes doesn't mean that you all of a sudden have a phenomenal relationship, it doesn't mean that you, you know again that sometimes sometimes are very toxic people that you don't allow to have that impact on you, but it frees you from things that you've experienced in life.
 And you know, I mean one of the things I'll add to that is just around this whole idea, this whole concept we've all heard this before you don't know what you don't know.
 And you know going through next of a life and seeing exactly what you're talking about what was it not only that I experienced with my parents, but then also what was it my parents experience with their parents.
 And getting to this place of seeing, I'm just going to call it generational issues that you know that I grew up in and experience and never really thought twice about it because that was just what my childhood experience was.
 But in reality, what were the things that were happening in my life from my parents, from my siblings, all those things that went into and shaped who I became as an individual going back to what Joel said earlier about that led to my decision making and not knowing any different.
 Not knowing that there was other ways to look at it, not knowing that there were different views and different ways to approach things that because I just growing up this way, this is what I experienced, this is what I expected.
 And learning this stuff allowed me to break some generational curses, if you will, of things that had been passed down beyond way beyond even my grandparents and how things were looked at and how things were done because it's just what we've always known.
 And we can step outside of that mindset of, well, this is just what I've always known and look at it and go, well, what is the truth, what is it that reality actually is, what is it that's around us that can help us actually make a correct decision, not just the decision because it's what we've always experienced.
 And that's the powerful stuff that I came out of the event and I've heard plenty of other people have come out of the event as well, it's just around that piece right there and understanding gosh, if I didn't take the time to learn this, I'd be in the same spot I was 15, 20 years ago, you know, because I don't know any different.
 I'm just taking a life and responding to life the same way that I saw my parents respond to life and go through life.
 Yeah, absolutely absolutely absolutely.
 So everything we've been talking about the last few minutes really Hubbers around root system so Chris, I have a question for you.
 How did root system come about within next civil life and that because this was the most powerful morphing of next civil life was the introduction of root system, how did it come about and what is it.
 Yes, thanks for the softball pitch, I didn't think about that.
 There so in the early days, did I was I doing root system when you came through now? Okay, so it was even it was after you.
 In the early days, so there's this aspect of helping people see certain things and you know it's tough sometimes we can be very blind to our own situations or own past or whatever sometimes we don't want to see something sometimes we literally.
 Can't we don't get it, it doesn't make any sense.
 And as I was going through, I had this habit of trying to teach people how to look at their life.
 This is you know, this is what your life is like and walk through this process and I was there with somebody one time going through and they just weren't getting it.
 I was explaining this and it just wasn't landing and I'm standing there at the board now let me back up a little bit because I always have to back up a little bit.
 I'm a big fan of wine and I'm not just talking about drinking wine. I enjoy drinking wine, but I'm a big fan of farming wine of making wine of growing the grapes. I used to go so I was born in Sanoma but raised in Lake Tahoe.
 I've always gone back to both places and in spent time in both places and I used to go to nap a valley, Sonoma, all that and spent out of always going the off season. And here's the funny thing when you when you look at who owns a winery and who are the winemakers.
 They tend to be very introverted people. They don't like the crowds. Whenever it's the busy season they're usually not around. I'm not saying that they're all that way. Some of them are very, you know, people friendly and people focused.
 But if you go on the Aussies and I would always find myself spending time with a wine owner, a vineyard owner, a wine maker and just learning like crazy and growing on my understanding of wine and the wine process and the growing process and
 what it looks like to ferment it and just so on and so forth all the way from the ground all the way to the bottom.
 And so I happened to know a lot about wine and it's a passion of mine. It's something that I've enjoyed. And one day I'm stead of there trying to figure out how to explain this person's life to them.
 So that they can see something and understand it. And I feel like I hear guns say, tell them how their life is like wine and I want, oh, crud.
 Well, if that's you, Lord, this is going to be great, but if that's not you, this may suck out loud.
 It's so I just said, okay, well, let's give it a whirl. And I turned around and said, hey, let me just kind of explain wine.
 And I went through the whole process and then I explained how these impacts that they had in their life and growing up and family members and parents and grandparents and siblings and teachers and friends.
 And you know, all these little deposits that have happened in their lives and how it affected their decision making processes and the things that they do now in their surface level of responses they experience.
 So just bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam
 And then I said, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,
 Now I see it. Gosh, I hadn't ever seen it that way. Wow.
 And so that's how the root system became really the foundation of the newer process and that was gosh, I had to been 2014.
 It was. It was just looking. Well, you were talking. Now it was like, let me look this up.
 Because I remember when we put out, I was still in Washington, D.C. And I remember hearing the initial what you have in common with wine podcasts and it totally blew me away.
 I was so excited and like Chris, all my gosh. I remember texting you how amazing it was. Well, that was April 14 episode 30 of the Chris Accordio show.
 Four hundred and seventy something episodes ago was when what you have in common with wine came out.
 So it was a better year into the process is when you started going root system and then it took off from there.
 Yeah, it really is the foundation of what we teach obviously we use it everywhere mainly in next level of life, but we use root system and talking to people through strap lands through leadership stuff all that kind of front stuff. So it's just powerful.
 Yeah, I think one of the things I love about root system and there's a lot is that it does give you that framework on which to hang your decisions. Now it's like, I'll understand this now rather than I think how I think my emotions are what they are.
 I make decisions how they are now it gives people a logical framework of which to understand themselves.
 And when you're trying to understand yourself, there's nothing better than being able to switch from what's emotional to then something that's logical.
 Now you can get your hands around it. Now I can do something with it and start moving my decision making in just a in a forward process that changes how I respond to people and all the things we've been talking about.
 It is so interesting because I do not mean to offend anybody here, but I love we've had multiple psychotherapists that have come through and they sit there and they go, I wish we could do this.
 Like multiple times I've had them sit in the chair go through this process and go, I wish we could do this, but we can't do this.
 And so there are great psychotherapists out there. There's great counselors and great people to talk with everybody should have somebody to talk with.
 And then there's ones that are not so great that are still out there.
 The thing that we talk about in people are like, are we just going to sit and talk about all the bad things and have no that's not our process, that's not our goal, our goal is not to get you to the what.
 We will help you to see the what and a good number of person, you know, good percentage of people actually know the what are ready. High S is always know the what, but just overwhelmingly people don't know the why.
 And our goal is to get you to the why. We don't want to sit there and hang out in the way. We don't want to sit there and relive the what. We don't want to sit there and just talk about the what.
 We want to see the what and blast past it and get down to the why and the root system is such a huge piece of that being able to go. That's why I make those decisions. That's why I do this thing over here. That's why I struggle with.
 So this part of my life. That's why I struggle in relationship. And when people see it. It's just like you just said it's that amazing moment of breakthrough of oh my gosh. I wish I didn't know this my whole life.
 And again, no victims, no villains perspective gathering because when you can see it, you can change you. It's not a process of going, hey, we're going to show your root system. So you have people to blame not even.
 In the same universe, right? Instead, it's hey, do you see how this happened here and how this came to be and why this decision and this thing and this this this is now what are you going to do with it. Do you see why you have these surface level responses.
 Not because somebody else had one. It's not a one for one thing. We'll always tell people in next level life. It's not a one for one. You don't do this because you have a parent that did this. You do this here because this happened over here.
 And they taught you to do this piece over here because they didn't know any different. And when somebody sees that it's like, oh for the love now I have more compassion for a parent even horrible parents.
 And people can have more compassion for this. Don't need healthy boundaries all that, but it's just a fantastic moment of somebody going, oh, I would have never guessed that. So just great stuff.
 Yeah, it's so funny. You're talking about this because there are in my my life. I can probably count on one hand the number of major light bulb moments that I've ever had.
 And one of those was I remember exactly where was sitting at an on trail leadership in Cancun, Mexico hearing you teach about personality styles for the very first time and learning disk and realizing those kind of things.
 That was one of those top five things for me.
 One of the other.
 One of the others was root system.
 And it's one of those things that has changed how I look and see and think about not only myself, but other people around me because now I can start asking the question and gain the perspective.
 When I see things happen when I experience somebody, what possibly could be in their root system that could be guiding them or leading them the way that they are responding.
 Or what is it in my own root system that's causing me to respond in a way. And so being able to understand that and see that has given me a new light to able to see and look at things in a different way within my own life.
 You know, I've been waiting to get to this aspect of it because I would love for you guys to weigh in on this.
 We're just we're just weighing in it today. I'm somebody of my things that I wanted to talk about and I've even hidden, but one of the most important things to me is the children.
 You know, the kids. And so I love seeing the change in families. And I would love for you guys to just briefly hit on that.
 But one of the things I mentioned earlier was probably top three favorite things of next-level life is we've been having the children.
 And I say children, I'm saying teenage kids, young adults of those that came through years ago that are coming through.
 We've even had and this is, well, it gives me chills to think about it. We've had parents that came through. You guys know exactly who I'm talking about. You're listening today. I'm sure you are.
 Center teenage boys through. They came through next-level life. Later they got married brought their spouses through. I mean, that's just about to happen again.
 It's just crazy to me. It excites the crap out of me.
 That means we're getting old.
 So eventually they're going to come through. It is so fantastic to see. It's so God to see these parents that came through and had huge life change in family change.
 So much so that the kids later on want to actually have that change. They come through as teenagers.
 It impacted them as teenagers so much that later on they get married and they're like, "I want my spouse to go through this."
 What else could you say to that? I mean, it's just so crazy powerful. So I love it.
 But I'd love for you guys to speak to how it's impacted your kids as you raise them.
 So it's been fun because for me, Ariana, when she first met you, Chris, she was six months old.
 As I have continued to learn and grow in my abilities and in my leadership and learning about disc and learning about values and learning about how to have tough conversations and overcoming fear,
 I've been instilling that in my two daughters and teaching them. They're 14 almost 15 and 12.
 It's so fun when I have conversations with them about some of this stuff that I didn't get until I was in my 20s, 30s.
 And seeing the impact it's already having on them, so much so that my daughter, my older daughter who I love and cherish, can actually call me out and hold me accountable on things because she knows it enough to be able to go, "Okay, dad, are you operating at a fear right now?"
 Thank you, sweetie. Yes, I am. But honestly, I love it because she's able to see those things and be able to speak into those things and see them.
 She loves talking about personality styles. She actually came to one of our mastermind retreats this last summer learning about values because she just loves that kind of stuff.
 And once again, how do I take this into my life with my friends, with my future spouse, all this kind of stuff? What does that look like for me?
 And it's just been fun for me to watch and see both of my girls just latch on and go, "How do we learn more? How do we get more of this stuff?"
 Yeah, it's powerful. Yeah, I would say for me, because my kids are a little bit younger than yours, so I'm in 10853. Those are my kids ages.
 But all my kids have come about since coming through my own event and all the growth that's happened over the years.
 And I think the thing that's the funnest for me is to think about that they are experiencing a different father than they ever would have.
 And she was over that too. They've never experienced a lot of the things that I would have done had it not been for all of this personal growth.
 And so that's been really, really cool thought to think, "Wow, you don't even know how it could have been. Make myself sound like I was going to be this abusive pirate."
 But I would have not been the same. I would have been different. I would have been more protected.
 I would have been more toxic. I would have been a lot of the things that I am, but that's one of the coolest things to think about.
 I've been able to change over the last decade in a lot of ways. And so I think about all my little kids. I think about, "Man, would I have ever been in a place for God to use me and use Mary Beth and I to ever foster or adopt?"
 There's no way I could be doing a lot of the things that I love to do in this team in this business today because I would have held me back.
 I would have been too fearful, I would have been too insecure probably in a lot of ways.
 I would have been able to do my marriage would not be what it is today. It's the of all of the negative impacts. It probably would have been the hardest of all the things.
 Because I could contribute to conflict in so many ways. And then Mary Beth, she came through her event in a few years after mine.
 And when she came through her, to your point about having both spouses come through, absolute gain change for Mary Beth and I, but then we could both continue to grow over time.
 Because I live in this information and I live with seeing stuff that I struggle with being like, "Oh, because I teach it all the time."
 And I learned it's like, "Hey, stop doing that." And so we've been able to continue to grow into the Mary couple that we are today. But we would have been an entirely different Mary couple.
 Had it not been for both of us coming through our own events.
 One of the things I have mentioned many times, especially about Josiah, your oldest. The heir to the throne is the freedom.
 And when I look at Yol's kids, that is something that comes to mind. And especially Aaron, that's not the first time you shared that story with me.
 We've talked through that before and having seen the girls over the years and just seeing how free they are. And I always share the story about Josiah when I was up in DC.
 And just a little, I mean, so tiny. But at least it had been born. And so I guess he was what probably two-ish.
 And he was jumping off. He got up on the couch and was jumping into my arms. And he was just fling himself into the air.
 So I put him down. Something had happened. And I turned away. And my attention had gone. And I'm sideways to him.
 And it probably is, I don't know, a good 30 seconds or something. I've moved on. And I see out of the corner of my eye this child who was flying through the air.
 And I just turned back around and catch him. And that he had this massive smile. He wasn't even reaching for me. He was just flung himself through the air.
 And I caught him and I thought to myself, immediately, what are you doing? How did you, you don't know that I was going to turn around? Everything inside of my head just went,
 what even made you think that I would catch you? And immediately I went to how free this child was that in his mind, he felt so safe and secure that he could fling himself through the air.
 And that he was going to be caught. And it was just a freedom that I don't know if I've seen in a lot of children over my 52 years.
 It was just something that was so profound and I was just so amazed and had to process that immediately and I was so proud of it. It was a great, great thing.
 And I will tell you today, our youngest, Kili, youngest girl of five girls.
 I was so proud of her today. She was talking about this. She was in the social media group, not going to even try and wax social media expert.
 She was like, oh my gosh, this used to be a fun group and all these people are just complaining and talking about this, this and she goes, that's it. I'm done.
 She goes, I'm responding. This was supposed to be a social group, a fun group and all you'll do is complain and you know you're being victims and she starts going through.
 She's talking through, you know, the next level of life stuff that she goes, so I'm done. Thank you. It was dealt with it. I've just said it like,
 I'm so proud of you. You know, you such a great job. You know, it's so fun that at her age, she is absorbing and picking up and learning and growing was stuff and just, you know,
 being able to hear things and we talk about things that's such great depth of like, you know, such a situation happens, right?
 I'm a conversation and I'm able to push on her and she can receive it in just a second. She hears it. She gets it and she's like, yep, you're right. Okay.
 And moves on, you know, and so that generation, it's vogue to be a victim and she's so good hearing that.
 And then if you run to the other end of the scale, you know, Lenay who's just, you know, such a phenomenal phenomenal person in our business who helps so many people who guides so many people
 and just her ability, you know, this such great ends of the spectrum of ages here of just putting this stuff in place in their lives.
 So I think that is just always going to be one of the most profound things to me in life is when we can impact the next generation.
 Help them to make better decisions in her.
 Okay. So when we come back, we're going to talk about the spiritual aspects of next level.
 Freedom, it's so powerful. I don't rejuvenate it. I'm almost renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So I was very comfortable there. That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it. It's going to be hard for us going to be even better on the other side.
 For me, it was just very refreshing and I want to say life to you for me and really was.
 You know, I would go to the next level of life again and probably again and probably again because it's so powerful.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of self-awareness and freedom that they have
 or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like for you, then head on over to crsacrido.com/nextlevellife.
 [Music]
 All right, folks, we are back and we're going to hit probably what we think is, I think I say everything's
 the most powerful thing. This is the most powerful. This is the most powerful. But I think this is definitely
 the most powerful that's coming up. But before we get to the spiritual aspects in just a few months,
 we've got our annual live event that's geared towards helping your team to grow improve and excel in their role on your team.
 The fact is that the more effective you become as a leader, the more effective your team becomes.
 Think about all the things that we're talking about on this episode, it only makes sense. Which means the more your business will grow.
 With less stress. Circle highlight, star that, less stress on you. So if you're ready to take a hugely
 forward in your leadership capability, then you absolutely need to check out our next level of leadership live event coming up this April.
 Registration is open and seats are selling out, so don't put this off. The keynote lessons are geared to equip you to build high
 performing teams, cultivate excellence in every corner of the business and grow your revenues. We're teaching
 truly transformative lessons during this event and you won't want to miss them. So sign up today at
 ChrisLecordo.com/events and get ready for growth. Once again, go to ChrisLecordo.com/events
 to take your business to the next level. All right, speaking of the next level,
 let's talk about probably our favorite side and that's the spiritual side. Gosh, I'm not going to start.
 When you guys jump in and then I'll hit. You know, I think it first of all, an interesting evolution that we've seen over time.
 And I think it was a few years ago that Chris, you and I talked about this that people would come into events
 and they would just say and straight up say, "I've got a phenomenal relationship with God."
 And sometimes people would battle that or want to defend that. And what was an interesting shift over the years,
 no 100s events, is that my experience most people come into next level of life now. They know,
 I don't have the relationship with God that I should. I don't know what's happened there,
 other than if somehow that the spirit is moving on people. But it's been a fascinating thing to watch.
 I think there's a couple of things. Well, let me say, I think I know of a couple of things. I'm sure there's 10 billion things.
 One of the things is, you know, we have, we've spent a lot of time on this show talking through deeper,
 God things, deeper spiritual things. But I really truly believe, got as revealing himself more and more to people on what he's looking for in the individual relationship.
 So one, I think we have so many folks that have come out of that church background that says,
 "Just show up once a week. Here is Sarmun. Go on with your life." And I think so many people have seen that's not been the impact that they thought it should be.
 So in the early days, you know, as you put it out in the early days, somebody would count through next level of life.
 It's a well-hazard relationship with God. And we have had plenty of people come through that are atheists or claimed to be atheists, right?
 But with how's your relationship with God? Oh, it's great. We've got a church every week.
 Okay, which is fantastic. But how's your relationship with God himself?
 That's great. I mean, we don't miss a week. We've got a church every week. Okay, well, that's great. That's going to church. That's hearing.
 That's learning that's being right on the people. But what about directly with God? I don't understand what you mean.
 Well, just your relationship directly with him. And I think that was one of some of those early phases of people going,
 "Oh my gosh, I didn't realize that I should and could have a direct relationship with God
 and that the church part is the social part." You know, that there is this relationship I should be having with God.
 As you point it out, I think, gosh, a few things. One, I believe we've seen God revealing himself,
 lightly in much more profound ways. I feel like people are really recognizing that there's so much more to God
 than showing up and listening to a lesson once a week, right? That there's so much more than the spending time with folks in a social situation
 once a week, which is fantastic and it's great and it's awesome. But there's more. Right? And I think we've had a lot of folks that have been yearning for.
 I desire a deeper relationship with God. And I think that's what we see a lot of folks experiencing.
 And when you ask them, you know, what's the change? What's driving this? I don't know. I just know that I don't have that relationship.
 And I can't really verbalize it. So I think that God is moving in a way that is causing people to say, I want more of him.
 And I think you're also hearing more teachers. You know, we teach it. There's a lot of folks out there that teach that there is so much more to God than going to church.
 You know, what is it that Christian McLollan says? She says, God is so much greater than you've ever known or so much better than you've ever known. And it's so absolutely true.
 You know, there's so much more to God than just that time slot that you set aside.
 And when you have a greater relationship, it's crazy powerful. So those are my thoughts. I don't know. What do you guys think?
 One of the things that I absolutely love about just this, what we've been talking about today is it forces us to look deep in ourselves and figure out who are we or even the deeper question. Who's are we?
 And I think that that whole idea of understanding that is just opening up a bigger discussion around what is our face journey look like. You know, I can be one of those people that can admit to, yeah, you know, something morning Wednesday nights doors were open to church.
 We were there.
 But what was my relationship with God?
 Exactly. What was my actual relationship with the creator of the universe? And that was the thing that I think for me when I got to college, my eyes were open to that. And I started seeing God in a new light and a new way.
 At a much deeper level than just being a church attender.
 So I think just understanding that and tying that into now all the other stuff that's going on through an event like next to the life allows us to see the spiritual side of what's going on.
 And I see all these things where God in my life has moved and prepared things and set things in motion that I don't always see, I always recognize, but then I can look back on and go,
 God, I see what you're doing there.
 I see what you were doing in my life there and what you were putting together.
 So I think some of my favorite moments over the years when it comes to faith is when you're leading someone through the next of a life.
 And you were helping guide them into some really deep, high opening things about themselves or about some stronghold that they're struggling with in their life.
 Or their view of God just isn't anywhere close to accurate because of whatever their religious upbringing has been or, you know, they experience this is what God is, but then they go home and their parents are just awful or whatever it may be.
 And all of a sudden they get their eyes opened and then they get washed with truth and washed with.
 Let's take a look at this in the Bible. Let's overlay this thing that we see here with your situation that you're walking through here.
 Look at how God responds here. Look at what Jesus did at that point in time with a person that was dealing with X, Y and Z.
 And it's so I wish I could take everyone listening into the room because we can't do it justice sitting here talking about it.
 Like I'm not even scratching the surface the depth and the power of some of these moments changes people forever because it changes how they view God forever or they change is how they view themselves and God forever.
 Those deeply just impactful moments are some of my most fond memories and favorite moments of seeing people truly find freedom in their life.
 Yeah, I think you know, so we've mentioned before in its own body we've had many calls where somebody's you know going to be doing a next level life with me and they're like Joel.
 Do I need to tell Chris that I'm not a believer and you know I don't believe in God and all this how is he going to be and it's all your responses always the same.
 This isn't his event this is yours. He's going to be perfectly fine and Chris just asked you know are we just ask are you okay if we just have the conversation.
 Never has that ever been turned out every single time people have said oh yeah I don't mind having the conversation I'm just not a bully for you know I just believe in science or I just believe in you know all this kind of stuff.
 And we are always incredibly welcoming please come in let's you know let's have the conversation if you're if you're just like no not talking about it great we just move on no big deal right every single person has a lot of us to have that conversation just a discussion.
 And never I don't know about you but never in any of the events that I've been through has anybody said I do not want to talk about this you're just flat wrong got it.
 Yeah, whenever what I've discovered over all the years and it's the same is you know if you look at a robby sacrifice it there's always going to be two sides to the surgery that you believe science proves God wrong.
 It's a 30 minute conversation when somebody hears that discussion it's like oh my gosh, nobody's ever told me that nobody's ever said that and then there's the side which is I don't want God to be real.
 And a lot of that comes from horrible situations in life and horrible parents or horrible you know somebody did something really bad or you know something there's something back in there.
 The bad people bad situations evil whatever and the last thing they can do is is come to this place of saying that there is a God you know if that kind of stuff exists and that's a much longer conversation.
 But out of that I don't even know what number we're up to out of 500 events I know we're well over 20 salvation set of happened in that.
 We're probably still at like five or six that have not you know people that are just like that's fine. I hear you thank you. I'm sticking with you.
 But just the power of people seeing God in a different light and seeing what he's second so what you're saying is.
 Because so many people take the experiences of bad parents and that usually becomes the well if this is what God is like then I don't want God you know and we have to say hey listen humans aren't God don't.
 I think that's the thing that a lot of people miss and don't understand is saying that loving that of God that's probably the most transformative piece would you agree with that.
 I think when people come from from high control backgrounds abusive backgrounds and religion is dropped on them like a block or they come from a very
 different way.
 I think that's probably the most profound piece we love it.
 It's just so fantastic and it's not it's a with anybody who is a believer then it's just part of their discussions part of their the conversation if anybody is an atheist or agnostic or whatever.
 We just say hey do you mind having one conversation throughout the thing and it's amazing how much that has been not only do they have the conversation but they want to talk through it as far as they possibly can which has always been great in fun.
 No matter what the important piece is that with every human being walking this planet there is a much greater in depth relationship that you can have with the king of the universe with our father.
 I think that's my favorite part I'm sure it is yours as well is that opportunity to help people see even people that have really good relationships with God just learn greater truth greater aspects so powerful stuff.
 I've said powerful I don't know how many times in this one episode we always say that but it's part of this one time and next up a life of them we got into the I was leading one and the person said you know so you and Chris say things are powerful a lot and always I'm like oh gosh how can it is it really that powerful and then she got into the day one she was like okay this really was power.
 I don't have a better word so all right Joel you've got a bunch of testimonials we get go through all of them one to 500 let's you just hit a few of those to kind of help people here you know we have a lot of folks that are listening to this that have been listening to us for years and I like I know I need to go to that thing but.
 I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I know I
 I think this is the Jesse that you led through so long ago and just a phenomenal phenomenal man.
 I love you know I am talking about the control I feel in control of my own life rather than giving it to others.
 I'm assuming that just hit a whole bunch of people right there it's so needed it's so needed for you to be in control of your own life instead of giving control or giving authority over to other people.
 What else yeah yeah so Nils said because this was one of the hardest things I've ever done but my perspective on life is completely changed.
 I believe in know that I'll look back on these two days as pivotal days in my life.
 Yeah I mean you it's speaking to the hard part it's like yeah it's hard it's hard to open yourself up and do something like this and be this vulnerable.
 But again I'll encourage people as you did earlier it's it's it is so judgment free.
 We just talk through stuff and you and I as facilitators here are so open and vulnerable with people too is like there's nothing to hide.
 And because we can demonstrate we don't sit there on our our our chairs of self-righteousness are white.
 We're there with you we've lived lives we've made mistakes and we still make mistakes and we learn from them and we try to do better.
 And we're pretending to lead people through these events like we've got everything figured out or were the masters of life.
 We're here to help you we're here to facilitate you know so glad you brought that up because we have had there are some folks that are so.
 In secure self-conscious of their their life their past their history or what decisions they're currently making that a big fear is that I'm that we're going to sit in judgment and it's like you've got to come to understand who we are you have to come to understand who we are.
 We're the people who screwed up a lot.
 We're the people who have made huge mistakes we are the people who have disappointed God and people and all that we are terrible.
 It's life right we are sinners and need of grace.
 But don't you talk about air in that.
 Sorry Aaron.
 Sorry.
 But we are people who are reaching out of hand saying hey we've figured out how to get past some of these things we figured out you know God has revealed to us I shouldn't say we figured out God's revealed to us.
 Better ways better opportunities better decisions freedom things that are going to make your life so different.
 And so you know as you say we don't have this stuff figured out we just have the stuff that got as revealed and it's so freeing and so.
 I think that is such a good thing for people to recognize is this is not a place of judgment this is a place of going hey guess what we've screwed up just like you screwed up.
 We've done stupid just like you done stupid we've just kind of God's revealed to us ways of getting past this stuff so what else got.
 Yeah, let me share this last one this is from KD Katie said next of a life is impacted our entire family and will for future generations our children.
 Wow, what an impact next of a life will have on them Chris explained our root system this was a whole new concept to me and really open my eyes to how the past are how the past people decisions and circumstances impact who you become as you grow up so just so I opening for it.
 So Katie.
 So good. Well folks more than anything else.
 I hope you can hear our hearts for people.
 You know, hopefully you're hearing our hearts for for couples their relationships their their families and their businesses think about this you know as I just wrapped up a a strap plan last week so but for you business owners and leaders.
 You're bringing this stuff to right doesn't matter who you're you don't have to own a business if you're walking this planet you have a job.
 You're bringing this stuff to your work right so we understand what it's like to struggle with that stuff and we know that you want a better way we want a better process.
 We also know that you know plenty of other people who need this help.
 So if you're struggling you know somebody is get subscribed to this podcast get the information that you or they need right help folks to get this and hear this and and make quality decisions to change the lives and get into a next level life event.
 This year don't don't hesitate all you got to do is just reach out and get some information and find out if it's free.
 I always tell people it's the most empowering thing to sit down with either you or Aaron get on the phone and just go tell me about this thing and have a one on one conversation where somebody can go.
 Yeah, you're in a it's as simple as oh now that I've heard all the information sign me up I'm ready to go or even hey now that I've heard this I don't want it.
 Which I don't know how many times that actually happens.
 We don't think we really get that that off and I think people which it does I'm sure there's people that are still said you know and I'm not ready.
 But I think it's so overwhelming when people go oh let me get a deeper version of this on my own life.
 So we're so blessed to have people like you who desire to get unstuck who desire to grow, who desire to make a better life better relationships and help others find the same freedom that you have we thank you.
 That you trust us that you listen to us that you allow us to speak into your lives.
 But that is all the time that we have for today. I know we could literally sit here and do this for hours.
 Happy 10th anniversary. Happy 10th anniversary.
 Thanks for being a part of this you guys thank you for joining me again on another great episode.
 Yeah great to be here.
 Yeah absolutely so good having you guys here so love doing this with you guys on a daily basis.
 Well folks I hope this information has helped you.
 Thank you for celebrating with us today 10 years of the work that God has enabled us to do in and through.
 As always we want you to take this information change your leadership change your business change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]