 What leaders need to be doing once they've started making their team successful?
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 It is a beautiful and sunny day where I am right now and I'm absolutely enjoying not having
 a bunch of rain.
 So, I hope you're having a great day as well.
 Today we'll continue our series that we're calling Cultivation and what are we called
 wedding?
 We're cultivating leaders.
 We started with part one talking about making other successful, which is one of our favorite
 things to do around here.
 You've heard me say it a thousand times before, but let me say it for a thousand and one
 times.
 Your job as a leader is to make other successful, not the other way around.
 It is one of those things that I hate to say it, but I think in our creative
 ways, we're a world of social media, gurus and all of these pop up amazing leaders that
 are teaching you how to hustle, hustle, hustle, like crazy, making it more important than
 other aspects of your life.
 One of the things that I continuously see come across in their messaging is how important that
 you are.
 You are important.
 You're important to me.
 But listen, as any great leader actually understands, your importance is only according to
 how you can make other people very successful at what they do.
 If you can't get people to follow you, none of that matters.
 Often I say in events, if you want to find out if you're a leader turn around, if nobody's
 following you, then by definition, you're not leading anybody, right?
 So let me highlight two main points that we hit last time before we go into today's episode.
 We said that the greatest challenge and perhaps your greatest success as a leader will be
 making others great.
 Making them successful, building your team into something, right?
 So let me say it in another way.
 You're in the construction business.
 The business of building others up and making them successful in their role on your team.
 Now, we ended part one by saying leaders, you've got to learn to take others with you.
 Take them alongside of you.
 Show them what to do, show them how to do it.
 Watch them as they do it and empower them to show others as well.
 So while that's a very summarized version of what we teach as far as proper delegation, I think
 you get the idea.
 Now obviously there's a ton more to that and making sure that you delegate properly.
 But that kind of rounds that out for you.
 So leaders teach.
 Leaders, they mentor, they, they, by definition, lead others.
 When you begin to see other people's success as part of your success as a leader, then you're
 becoming a true person of influence.
 Now, here's the deal.
 Sure, you're going to have some folks on your team who enjoy their role.
 Maybe you helped make them successful at their current role.
 Great.
 That can even help other people around them to be successful too.
 Awesome.
 It's working.
 This is what you're looking for.
 But that's it.
 That's all they want.
 They may never aspire to be anything more than that.
 And that's fabulous.
 Not every person is supposed to be actual leader, like a heavy role of leadership.
 This is one of the things I think that gets confusing from time to time.
 You need people to be great at doing the tasks that they do.
 You need people who are phenomenal at doing the same thing over and over and over again.
 And believe it or not, if you're not somebody who understands that, there are plenty of
 people who love doing the same thing day in, day out.
 They enjoy that.
 You may be somebody listening to the show going, I can't even possibly understand that.
 Surely there's nobody on this planet that's like that.
 Yes, absolutely there are.
 If there wasn't, we'd be in trouble, right?
 Because we need people that won are able to do 10 different things and never like doing the
 same thing over and over again.
 And we need plenty of people who really enjoy doing the same thing over and over again.
 So understand that not everybody is going to become a leader.
 In fact, that percentage is actually considerably smaller.
 Now, you're going to have people that are going to stay that same way.
 You've made them successful in the role.
 Great continue to do so year after year after year after year so that they continue to, you know,
 be phenomenal at the very thing that you're paying them to do.
 But you will, however, have some folks who want to grow out of their role and into leadership.
 And that's what we're talking about today.
 Now why?
 Well, here's the progression that we'd like to see in leaders.
 One, they make other people successful.
 They develop these people into leaders and then they take these leaders and create teams.
 These are things that we are looking for.
 If we can accomplish this, if we can make these things happen, then we do something that's absolutely
 amazing.
 We start duplicating us as a leader can duplicate themselves.
 Then we really start to see some amazing growth and keep in mind, you can't do it all.
 If you could do it all, there'd be a billion different single person businesses.
 But that's not the way that God hasn't.
 He doesn't have us doing this fire show.
 So when we come back moving to the next level of maturity as a leader means developing those who
 you've made successful into leaders.
 We're going to dig into that right after this.
 Hey folks, a couple years ago I was visiting with a client and the CEO said to me,
 Chris, we're not going to hit our goal.
 I asked him what he meant and he said, we're going to miss our three year revenue goal coming
 out of Stratplanned by a few months.
 I didn't realize it at first that he was having a little fun with me by saying they were about
 to triple their company in less than three years.
 How freaking awesome is that.
 Folks, these are the kinds of results that businesses get by coming through our four-day
 Stratplanned events.
 On average, we've find two point one million dollars worth of revenue in the next 12 months
 that the company was not planning on.
 And this event is for all size businesses.
 If you're small, medium or large, it works for every single business because it's not industry
 specific.
 It's about gaining all the information about all the things inside of your business that are
 holding you back from success and then giving you a plan and a process on how to walk that out
 and be successful in your business.
 By discovering the things that are holding you back, it helps you get to all of those goals
 that you've been planning on for a long time.
 So if you're ready to get the perspective you need to solve what's holding you and your business
 back so you can grow faster than you need Stratplanned.
 So learn more, go to Chrissacordo.com/Stratplanned.
 That's Chrissacordo.com/Stratplanned.
 [Music]
 Okay, I love something that Zig said that I really think it just aligns with me and
 I believe it aligns with most of the people listening to the show.
 You don't build a business, you build people and people build the business.
 Now I think if Zig was alive today and can see some of the things that are going on in the
 world today, I think he might actually look at that and go, "Ha, well I still agree with
 it but surprise, surprise, apparently some people can build businesses and use people as tools.
 That is actually happening and you know what, some people are bringing incredibly successful
 at it.
 I still don't think, for me the thing that they're being successful at is not building a great business
 because by my definition a great business means that you have people that are being great.
 Sure they're building businesses that are cranking out widgets, sure they're building businesses
 that are selling those widgets and making lots of money.
 That's great.
 But for me business is so much more than that.
 Business is never going to be just money for me.
 Business is never going to be just cranking out widgets.
 I'm not that guy.
 So I lean in the direction of what Zig is said here, what he said in the past and I still
 that is a model for me.
 I don't build a business, I build a team of people.
 If I can build a great group of people, I want to do the business.
 Now I guess if my only desire was the money, well then I'd be really excited about building
 a business and not really caring about the people in it, whether they change out.
 If I'm swapping people out left and right, I wouldn't really care about that.
 But that's not who I am.
 And I don't think that's anybody who's listening to the show.
 You'd be listening to somebody else.
 That's who you were for me.
 I look at this as God's opportunity.
 I look at this as a responsibility to God that this business changes lives, that it impacts people,
 that doing this show.
 I've been doing this show for so many years, while just 10 years alone in this business.
 And man, the impact that we've seen it have is the reason we continue to do this over and over again.
 And it's to push out all this free content so that people can change their lives so that they can help others grow as well.
 So some things to look at.
 Number one, when someone you serve grows out of selfishness and serves the good of others, you are a successful builder.
 Number two, when someone you lead gains more responsibility, including the respect of their team, your successful builder.
 And what do I mean by the respect of their team?
 About that this is somebody who's looking at themselves as amazing, you know, an incredible person.
 Oh, you, you should respect me.
 In fact, let me push really hard against the concept that because you have a title, you deserve respect.
 You do not deserve respect.
 I do believe in the old adage that you earn respect.
 And if I have not earned the respect of my team, then I can't command their respect or
 factor or just believe that they're going to do it for no great reason or because I have a title.
 The title doesn't mean squat folks.
 One of the things we used to say back in youth ministry all the time is, is kids don't care how much you know until they know how much you care.
 The title doesn't mean anything.
 If I know that you actually care about me that you're going to do something that you plan on helping me to grow.
 That you plan on helping me be successful and reach some of the goals that I have.
 And hey, I will respect you.
 If I see that you respect me, then I can respect you.
 Right.
 So just be thinking along those lines when I say that what that means is that you've done something to earn that number three.
 When someone you inspire goes on to do more than they thought they were capable of your successful builder.
 So the exciting thing is that some folks will grow out of their current role and into leadership.
 So here's my question.
 Is it worth it?
 I will tell you it is absolutely worth it.
 I love what John Maxwell says a quote that I have used of his for cheese decades.
 Probably dating John and myself here.
 Would you rather spend money on growing your team members and they leave with the money you spent or don't spend money and they stay.
 Think about that.
 John points out that great leaders like those in the top 1% of leadership positions have something in common.
 They know that acquiring and keeping good people is a top priority.
 So here's my question to you.
 Is that a top priority for you?
 I'm not going to lie.
 It is not easy.
 In fact, it's not only tough, but in having led people for over three decades now, I can tell you it's getting tougher to find quality people.
 It's getting tougher to find good people that are worth keeping.
 Praise God. We have got a solid team, but I will tell you we had to go through many people to get to this solid of a team.
 And one of the toughest things for me, one of the things I absolutely hate is entitlement.
 People who think you should be paying them because they breathe.
 We have gone through a bunch of people in roles that apparently the role just tends to draw this type of person who believes you should just pay them and
 credit them to make them a credit amount of money. And if they accomplish something great, but if they don't, so what they deserve to be paid.
 Folks, I will tell you, it is tough. It's tough finding people who want to actually work nowadays.
 Much less be great at what they do. So guess what it's going to take time.
 It's going to take your time to teach them to train them to delegate properly to them.
 And if you don't spend time in making them great, then what's going to happen? You're going to have these folks stay on your team and the role they're in with the level of excellence or the level of productivity that they currently have.
 Well, I'm sorry. That's just not good enough for me.
 I want people growing. I want them getting better because we have a lot to do. We have a lot of lives to change.
 So somebody just stays at the same level. I'm going to struggle with that because it means that they're not doing a great job in growing and it means that our leadership team is not doing a great job in getting them there.
 Now, ultimately at the end of the day, if somebody does not want to grow if they refuse to grow, they're probably not going to stand our team very long because that's not the kind of team that we operate.
 So another thing is it's going to take resources. Yes. Yes. Yes. It's going to take money. Sorry. But guess what?
 You know, as a group of, you know, as a company that coaches people, people pay us to help them have better leaders, better teams, all that stuff. We pay people to help us in the areas that we need help.
 I've been doing that for a really long time. I mean, it's got to be decades by now that I've been paying people to help me, my team, my company and our weak spots.
 Not only do I do it in the business, but I do it in my personal life as well. Why? Because I have come to a place of understanding that if I get the right coach in my corner, if I get the right people in my corner, I become better.
 I can grow. So it's going to take resources. It's going to take assets. It's probably going to take technology to get people better. You're just going to have to find those things that make them better.
 You know, many times I help entrepreneurs and business owners and leaders understand, you may have done something incredibly well without any technology.
 There's been many things I've done in the past and then hired somebody to do it and they couldn't do it as good as I could. And as I sat down with them going, hey, what's the struggle? They're like, well, I need this piece of technology. I need the software program.
 I'm like, how interesting. I've never used that software program. And then I plug it in for them and they do the thing I was doing only they do it better. They do it better than I did.
 Which makes me wonder why did I use that software program. But the key is not everybody's going to do it the same way you do.
 And if they can do it better than you, praise God Hallelujah. This is what we're looking for. We want them to be better than us, right? That's the goal. We want to duplicate ourselves and then help them to become better than us.
 So yes, it's going to take resources. It's going to take time. It'll take the right things. But gosh, guys, you already know this.
 Anything worth doing and this is worth doing is going to take time and effort and definitely resources. I love what bummer Donald, a client of ours, said to me,
 "What's when he started implementing killing the leadership crazy cycle?" We got out of college and said, "Man, I've been leading others for three whole days and I'm exhausted."
 He's like, "Why did I spend more time killing the leadership crazy cycle before now? This is so much better."
 And it was so great to have this conversation and say, "What are you noticing? What are you experiencing?" And everything came down to, I can do so much more now. Because I'm actually focusing on making other people great, leading other people to success.
 So I'm going to tell you, it's worth it. It's so worth it. And there's more than just what I'm discussing right now. The bonus is, is that the more we grow our team members, the more we will grow our bottom line.
 If we are duplicating ourselves, unless you're just running a business that doesn't make any money, if you're duplicating yourself in the process, this should absolutely grow your bottom line.
 So it's worth it. Now, why don't more leaders do it? Well, most leaders like Bo was are still caught in the leadership crazy cycle, right? That was one of the best things for him to get out of.
 And so many of our other leaders that have followed this process as well.
 If you're still stuck in the leadership crazy cycle, then man, it is going to jack up any attempt at making other people great.
 It's definitely going to jack up any attempt at making other leaders. So we've got whole episodes teaching on this. So we're not going to go into that here, but you've got to go to past episodes to get this.
 The leadership crazy cycle is a huge trap that will absolutely hold you back. And fact, if that's where you are, then you need to get to our next level leadership live event.
 The fact is that the more effective you become as a leader, the more effective your team becomes, which means the more your business will grow and with less stress.
 If you're ready to take a hugely forward in your leadership capability, then you absolutely need to check out our next level leadership live event coming up this April.
 Now registration is open and seats are selling out so don't put this off. The keynote lessons are geared to equip you to build high performing teams to cultivate excellence in every corner of the business and to grow your revenues.
 We're teaching truly transformative lessons during this event and you won't want to miss them. So sign up today at crissacrittle.com/events and get ready for growth.
 Once again, go to crissacrittle.com/events to take your business to the next level.
 All right, let's get back to what's keeping you from investing in others. Now here are a few more reasons that leaders won't invest in making new leaders.
 Number one, this is one of the toughest things. So before you just go, well, that's not me. I really want you to search yourself.
 Number one is giving up control. Now some people hear that and they go, oh, I don't have a problem with other people doing the other things. That's not what we're talking about here.
 We're talking about the control that you have on things working the way you think they should.
 Working properly, sharing some people think of sharing power or responsibility.
 The thing is what we're really really talking about here is that leaders can feel out of control when they give ownership to someone else. Now a lot of times you will hear me teach about making sure that your team has ownership, making sure that they have buying and sometimes people hear that and freak out.
 They're like, what do you mean ownership? No, not talking about ownership of your actual business. We're talking about owning their roles. You setting them up for success so well that they know exactly what they're doing.
 They take ownership of that role. They run with it. They make it happen. They're not constantly coming to every five seconds to ask you questions or find out what they should be doing.
 They know what they're supposed to be doing and they do it. So that is a valuable thing to make sure that you've got team members that are owning their roles.
 But sometimes people can feel like this causes them to feel out of control.
 Leaders can feel useless or in the way if others are being more productive. This is such a big fallacy that so many leaders have is that if they make somebody successful at doing something that they were doing, then they're not going to be needed.
 It is so difficult to get leaders to a place of understanding there is so much more your company needs from you than what you're doing right now.
 Just stick with us. We'll teach you that stuff. We'll teach you how to lead even greater even higher levels when we have not only in the next level of mastermind program, we've got killing and leadership crazy, so I could but we've got the follow up.
 Here's what you do when you've done that. Here's how you lead people to success after you've done it, right? You're not useless.
 Somebody standing around not doing anything. Instead, as you get things off of your plate and make other people great, more things pop up or you get better training on the things that you need to be focusing on.
 And that's what we help people to discover. So don't feel useless or you're not going to have anything to do.
 You're going to have a lot to do. Another thing is leaders can feel a loss of self-worth when they're not in control of everything. Well, if I'm not the one who's leading all of this to success, then I just don't feel worthy.
 I don't feel good enough. Guys, your worth is not in you doing it. I do not run my businesses. I haven't since the beginning.
 It was me. You've probably heard me talk about Brian Alex who came along and helped me out in the very beginning, but after I started bringing on quality people and putting them in roles and getting things off of my plate, the team has run the businesses.
 Right, I don't run a business. I lead leaders and those leaders lead other leaders and they those leaders lead team members. And so we have this phenomenal process of having people run the business, not Chris.
 Because if I had to do it all, I just wouldn't do it. There's too much to get done. I need phenomenal people who are doing it. So I can go on and do things like this spend time doing this.
 Right, spend time doing creating content doing shows doing next level of life, strap plans, all that kind of stuff. Right.
 So number two reason why so many leaders won't invest time is the empowering of others to do the work, which is giving them the tools that they need to success.
 A huge limiting factor is that a lot of leaders don't know how to empower others.
 So in other words, there's a lot of leaders out there who want to. They just don't know how.
 They don't know what tools are needed in order to succeed at this role. They're just too removed. And this is another fallacy that people think.
 I don't even know how that person does that job. How am I going to help them to do it better?
 I don't even do that job. They're doing that job way better than I am. Here's the great thing about leading.
 You don't have to know how to do the job to help somebody be better at it.
 The goal of a great leaders to discover the things that are holding that team member back.
 Help them to find those pieces and then solve those with them for them.
 Right. Don't just come in and tell them, here's what you're going to do differently, and this is going to solve everything because that rarely ever works.
 Instead of helping them to discover the things that are keeping them from being better and then solve those pieces for them.
 A lot of leaders are afraid that they're going to mess up or they're going to make mistakes or even look foolish as they try to help somebody else.
 Be better at their work or empower them to do their work better.
 Maybe you haven't built the trust necessary to really empower those under you. Maybe you're feeling like, you know, I don't have that relationship.
 That's okay. Let's work on that. Right. What do we need to do to get that relationship up? How do we get them to trust us?
 Maybe you don't show appreciation or recognize others for doing the great work that they're doing or the good work that they're doing.
 Well, these are things that we need to start doing. It is amazing how much the old saying people repeat what they're rewarded for is true.
 It is so true.
 And for a lot of leaders, especially business owners, we find it really difficult to tell people what they're doing right.
 We don't have a problem telling them the things that they're doing wrong.
 We can see the things they're doing wrong and tell them, hey, you need to fix this.
 But for many business owners, it's a struggle to actually tell somebody that they're doing something right.
 Not because they don't want to. It's because their brains not focused on that at the time.
 A lot of business owners, and I was guilty of this in my early days. I can tell you that many entrepreneurs and business owners and even leaders have this bad concept.
 I pay you a paycheck that should be the pat on the back that you need.
 I wish I were true, but we are emotional beings.
 And people like to hear that they're doing a good job.
 The crazy thing is when you become better telling them that they're doing a good job instead of telling them that they're doing a bad job,
 you will see them do a lot more things that you like them doing.
 It will be surprising how much better that they do.
 Now, number three, reason why a lot of leaders don't do this are struggle.
 This is giving up things that they enjoy.
 The parts of the job that they like.
 Folks, I get this early on in my leadership career.
 I mean, early on decades ago.
 I was doing some things that absolutely loved.
 And I spent some time trying to figure out how I was going to grow my team.
 And one of the things that kept smacking me in the face is that I was doing some things.
 Some speaking engagements believe or not.
 That I had to let go of.
 I had to get rid of these things and train somebody else up to do it.
 Because if I kept spending my time in that, then I couldn't spend time on my team.
 And so, man, I had to give up some of the things that I was really loving to do.
 You may have to find that thing that you're not going to get to do anymore.
 Because it's the thing that's keeping you from helping people be better.
 Here's the crazy thing.
 Do you think it stopped my teaching and speaking career?
 Not at all.
 Believe it or not.
 It opened up new opportunities for me to continue to teach and help people and grow people.
 So by getting the pieces off of my plate that I really enjoyed back in that time,
 it actually opened it up for me to do bigger better things.
 And so I had helped other people step up into great roles,
 not even realizing it was pushing me to higher heights, if you will.
 Another thing is maybe you got into your business to make widgets,
 but now you can't scale because you're behind a workbench, making one widget at a time.
 If that's you, if you're stuck doing so much of the work, what's going to change that?
 What's going to get you out and get somebody else in there making a widgets?
 So you can lead people to success.
 Well, Chris, we don't make enough widgets to make enough money.
 Well, we're going to have to step this up a piece at a time then.
 Right?
 Maybe you have to work with some part-time folks,
 or maybe you have some people on your team that you can start delegating some of the more money-making items too,
 so that you can step into other areas.
 You can figure this out.
 You just have to make the decision that that's probably the right direction to go.
 Another thing is maybe you can't get out of your own way.
 So that others can take your place.
 I don't like that phrase, Chris.
 Take my place.
 What are you saying?
 Guys, trust me.
 You listen to the show because you hear me giving advice and information that you feel like works.
 If you get out of the way, you will become more valuable to your own team, to your own company.
 If you stay in the way, nobody's going to be able to take on the things that you're doing,
 and you're going to be responsible for the 10,000 things you do every single day.
 So get out of the way, help and power.
 And let me add this about empowering others.
 To empower means to give power or authority, essentially to authorize,
 but it can also mean to draw power, energy, or enthusiasm out of space.
 Out of someone.
 So think about a Jever play, sports and school.
 Maybe you had a coach who challenged you.
 Maybe you had a math or science teacher.
 Maybe they encourage you to really study.
 I think we all have somebody.
 Maybe it was a music teacher who truly inspired you or maybe mentored you to push you.
 I think we all had somebody.
 Hopefully everybody listening had somebody in their life that empowered you to succeed to move up to the next level to grow.
 Well, the truth is that it's actually harder to lead others than to just do the work yourself.
 Think about it.
 Think about the coach trying to get you to run the specific play or the teacher who could have just solved the problem on their own.
 Or the music lesson that was painful for both you and the music teacher.
 Think about these people.
 Right?
 They didn't have to do those things.
 That could have just done those things on their own, right?
 Well, obviously not in the teaching and have a team.
 But the problem is is that until you replicate yourself in others, you are the primary limiting factor of your team.
 You are the lead.
 You're the one holding them back.
 And until you do this.
 So the solution is that when you focus on leading others to success, you can finally break out of this cycle and get ahead of the curve.
 When you get you out of the way, you can grow, you can scale, you can succeed at a much greater level.
 So when we come back identifying and cultivating other people into the leader that you think they can be.
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here.
 I'm the vice president of leadership development on Chris's team.
 And I oversee our next level mastermind business coaching program.
 Most business owners and leaders like a clear path to succeed in business.
 They question whether they're making the right decisions.
 If they're focusing on the right things to really grow their business.
 If this is you, you need a coach in your life.
 Coach is helping make better decisions, navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively, and grow your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue and an average of 138% increase in net profit and regain hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3.5 years simply because of the results they get.
 So if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting, then visit ChrisCarto.com/mastermind.
 Again, ChrisCarto.com/mastermind today.
 Okay, so it's time to get real here.
 Let's get down to the nitty-gritty of developing new leaders.
 Now, I want to give you a couple of things to ask yourself about a potential leader that you've identified as a Canada on your team.
 Right? Now, here's the fundamental question.
 Do not, do not, do not, do not, ever. Put somebody in a leadership role or even consider a person until you answer this question.
 And guys, I'm telling you, this is the thing that will cause you to make lots of failures in your leadership career if you cannot answer this question.
 What makes me think this person can actually lead, that they can actually become a leader, what potential do I see in them?
 What makes me think that they can lead other people to success?
 So, I love using this great example because I think so many people can relate to this.
 You know, one of the biggest mistakes that so many leaders in companies make is taking their best salesperson and making them a sales team leader.
 Because I like, well, my gosh, this person can sell like crazy. They've done such an incredible job.
 Surely they can lead other people to success doing the same thing.
 What in the world made you think that they can lead other people to success? Have you seen them do it?
 Have you seen them help other salespeople become better?
 Well, if they're your best salesperson, then the answer is most likely unequivocally no.
 Of course you've not seen them lead other people to success because otherwise, how would they be your top salesperson?
 The amount of time it takes to make a salesperson great makes it where you can't keep selling in being a top salesperson.
 You just can't.
 And if anybody says, oh, no, yeah, you can. Then I can promise you that person is either not doing a good job in leading people to success or they're taking a good job.
 And leading people to success or they're taking sales from their team.
 Because it takes a lot of time to make a person who's a salesperson great at selling.
 Unless you just hired all these amazing people in the person actually isn't leading them to success.
 They're just sitting there making all their sales calls.
 Either way, it's still accurate.
 You can't just lead people to success and be great at doing the thing that you're doing.
 The question has to be what makes the person great at leading other people to success.
 Right?
 So before you ever put anybody in a role as a leader, make sure that you can answer that question.
 What makes me think that they're going to be a great coach that they're going to be a great mentor that they're going to lead people and always see things in this person that they may not see in themselves.
 What is telling me that this person is going to help the one team member much less five or even more to have better qualities in their sales or whatever their role is.
 Have better aptitude, have better potential, right?
 A great leader identifies these things and then they spend time in the effort necessary and maybe the resources as well to draw out of us.
 My best teachers, mentors, coaches, leaders in life, we're not the ones that tell me what to do.
 They were not the ones who hired me and told me that I was supposed to make something successful and then left.
 They were the ones that came along and saw things in me and pulled those pieces out and then helped me to become better versions of those things.
 When you do that, when you have somebody like that in your life, then the other person becomes successful. So if you're going to define a great leader or you're going to identify a great leader on your team, you've got to ask the question, what makes me think that they have the right qualities to lead somebody else to success.
 The second question I want you to have is, do they even want to be a leader? This is super important. I violated this in my early leadership career.
 You don't want to push somebody out too early towards leadership because if they've not discovered that they want to be in it for themselves, then there's a really good chance that they are going to self sabotage if you keep pushing them.
 So there are two types of people on your team that you need to identify both of them. The role players, those that do great at being in a role in doing what the role is and the grow leaders, those that want to grow.
 That want to help you, that want to help others.
 If you can identify those roles, then we can do a great job at creating the right types of teams. But again, let me go back to saying this in my early career.
 I could see that people had potential and I would push on said people because I did not realize that they weren't ready for it.
 And because they didn't want to disappoint me, they ended up self sabotaging. After doing that to two people, 20 some years ago, I realized I'm the one who was sucking.
 And so instead of pushing people to leading, I started suggesting or pointing certain things out that I could see about that person.
 That they could do that I could see them accomplishing something. So make sure that you're not pushing people into this leadership role.
 Guide, direct, help them to see stuff. But if it's not their choice, do not put in there. So what do you want to look for? Well, sometimes growers, if I do my air quotes here, they're the kind of people who are frustrated in their role.
 And by frustrated, I don't mean they hate their role, my role sucks. What I'm saying is sometimes they can, they can be looking for more. They feel like they've accomplished the role well or they might even be struggling with other leaders because they're seeing things that aren't being done correctly.
 So sometimes you're looking for somebody who might even be in conflict with other leaders, we don't want them to be in conflict with other leaders. But perhaps they're seeing that something could be better.
 It could be done better. It could be done with more excellence just because somebody's pushing back does not mean that they are somebody who should be a leader.
 In fact, you might discover that there's somebody who absolutely sucks at it. They may just be entitled and struggling with their own personal issues.
 So again, don't hear this and go, oh, somebody's pushing back on leaders. They're supposed to be a leader. That is not what I'm saying at all.
 What I'm saying is is that if you find somebody who's wanting to take ownership or grow something and they can see a better way of doing that or there's at least there's some struggle internally that is possibly going to make that better.
 This is a great time to start digging in and seeing if they're the right person.
 Obviously, they need to mature in their leadership skills. That is what you're experiencing and this isn't everybody. This just may be something that you see.
 So we need maturity, obviously, but this may be some of their potential trying to find its way out.
 So I'm just putting this in there as a side note.
 Hopefully you're looking at people and seeing the people that are rising to the top because they're making other people successful naturally.
 You may not even be pointing out that they want a leadership role. They're just doing a great job in getting people there naturally, great fantastic.
 But what you also may discover is the person that their immature in leading right now,
 but you can see some of the frustrations coming out because they want something to be better than it currently is. So if so, then jump in there.
 See if you can't draw some leadership stuff out. Now follow up questions.
 So are you empowering those who want to grow? What steps are you taking with them? What steps are you taking to lead them to develop their own skills to master their current role?
 Don't put somebody, you know, if they've not mastered their current role, then how do you know they're going to make other people be great?
 Maybe they're only going to do, you know, help somebody else get 30, 40, 50 percent into being great at that role, right? So again, we're not saying they have to be a master at a role to lead people to success, but if you're pulling somebody from an area that's showing leadership capabilities and showing that they can lead other people to success, then
 ask the question, do they actually know how to do the job that they're doing really well? Are you getting them more training? Are you getting them more resources? Are you helping them to help others to succeed by giving them the opportunities?
 One of the things I have always loved doing is not telling somebody what I'm doing. I just put them in a position and say, hey, I'd love for you to help this person do this better.
 I'll put them in roles where I can see if they can lead somebody to success and the great thing is is the right person you'll see it. You'll see if they can make somebody else successful. You'll see it in the other person.
 If they appreciate how well that person did. So many times that's one of the things that I will do is instead of telling somebody I'm thinking about them for leadership.
 I highly suggest you don't let that cat out of the bag into your positive with this person because another thing is you can let people down too. If you discover man they suck.
 I can't be a great leader and then you're like, well, sorry about that. I guess I shouldn't have talked to you about that.
 Instead, check and see put them in situations, see if they can lead other people to success.
 What else are you doing to give them more and more ownership of that area?
 Are you doing things to see if they will take on more ownership and run with it?
 How well are they owning and delivering on the things that you're asking from them? Have they earned the respect of other leaders and team members?
 Right? Take a look at the other leaders and ask yourself this question. If my leaders and if I trust my leaders and I know my leaders are doing a great job, do they respect this person?
 Can I see them agreeing or ask the question, what do you think about this person as a potential leader? What are you seeing in them that would tell you that they could lead people to success?
 Do you see other people coming to this person for help? That is usually a good tell-tale sign for me. Unless you have just lazy people, what I like to see is people who I consider to be good or great workers coming to another team member for guidance.
 If they feel that trust factor there, if they feel like they can go and seek out some help, that usually is a good sign for me.
 If they need to be taught, they need mentoring, they need coaching, they need guidance. If you're going to do those things and you're going to help them to do those things, then you must start by killing the leadership crazy cycle.
 If you're going to help other people be great at being leaders, you've got to kill the leadership crazy cycle. But if you have killed the leadership crazy cycle, but leaders that you are trying to make great or leaders on your team, if they are stuck in the leadership crazy cycle, then you've got to help them get out of it too.
 You cannot expect somebody under you to lead people under them to success if they are stuck in the leadership crazy cycle just like you were.
 Do everything you can to help them through that process. That's what we love our key leaders program because we're not just helping the top leaders, we're helping those lower level leaders or next level leaders.
 We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're going to do that. We're
 I have lost team members that I've put lots of resources into. I have lost leaders that I have put lots of money in effort into.
 But I've had to go through certain processes to actually weed out those who aren't going to stay in be phenomenal.
 And I will tell you right now I have one of the strongest teams I've ever had in decades of leading people. I love it.
 And how much energy and effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?
 And how much effort has gone into this team?