 So, your team members are successful in their roles and you're creating new leaders from those successful members.
 So now what do you do?
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do,
 not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Let's start off today's show with some fundamentals of the leadership game.
 Rule number one, good leaders create culture.
 They don't allow it to be created.
 Rule number two, culture creates the company.
 So, you don't like the company that you've got.
 Well, then change the culture.
 Don't like the culture you've got.
 Well, it's always going to come back to your leadership.
 So, if you don't like the culture that you have, you've either let it incorrectly or you've allowed it to happen and other people have let it.
 You may have bad culture that has seek into your business if you've not been intentional.
 This is the third in our series of episodes on cultivating leaders.
 So, we're walking out the process.
 Number one, making the other successful.
 Number two, developing new leaders.
 Number three, creating leadership teams.
 So, the first episode, number 504, was back in January and was about making others successful.
 So, if you haven't got that, then you're not ready to go on to the next step.
 So, focus on where you're at, one step at a time.
 If you don't know how to make other successful, then please don't start developing new leaders.
 Why?
 Well, they won't know how to make other people successfully either.
 So, this is a big huge key piece that we're always trying to communicate to people.
 If you do not know whether or not a person that you're thinking about putting into leadership can actually make other people successful, then they don't belong there.
 And until you can answer that question, don't put them in leadership.
 But if you don't know how to get them to be a successful leader, then we got to go back and start, you know, like back at 504, start learning how to make them successful.
 So, the second episode is number 510, and that's from February.
 That was about developing new leaders.
 This is a huge hurdle for so many entrepreneurs and even CEOs.
 And that episode explores why.
 And here's where we left off in the series.
 So, this is kind of a quick recap for you.
 We discussed the fact that not everyone on your team will want to become a leader.
 And we call those people rolekeepers.
 Right? They're successful at what they're doing.
 They're content with what they're doing.
 They're dependable with what they're doing.
 This is fantastic.
 You've taken them as far as they want to go or at least at the present.
 So let them do their job, let them keep their role and let them, you know, kind of incubate for a little bit.
 You know, maybe they will become somebody who wants to be a leader.
 But as I shared and I believe 504, if somebody's not ready for leadership, it doesn't matter if you believe they can do it.
 In my early early years of leading, there were a couple of people over, I don't know, probably about a two or three year period that people I knew could be in leadership.
 I knew that they could do a great job, but they weren't ready for it.
 And so when I pushed on them, they self sabotaged.
 And it was just to have one I had to recognize that's my fault.
 I know I needed that.
 So don't push people.
 So they're not ready. They're not ready. If they're doing a great job in the role, then don't take them out of that role.
 And by the way, for everybody who keeps taking their best selves person out of the sales person role and putting them in as a leader.
 Stop doing that.
 You're losing incredible amounts of money, most likely.
 And chances are you've never answered the question, what makes me think this person can lead other people to success.
 Or if you have and the answer as well, because they know how to sell that doesn't mean they can lead other people to do the same.
 So you got your role. Keepers.
 However, you will find some who are ready for more.
 They're successful in their current role.
 They they want to challenge something beyond their current care.
 They are respected by the peers and colleagues.
 Maybe they're a little bit restless in their current role, but they can help make others on a team be even more successful.
 This is something that you are recognizing, something you've seen happen, something you've got a really good reason to believe that they can help other people become better.
 We call these grow leaders.
 All right.
 So these are the folks you want to be spending your time with developing them into developers of others, right?
 Growing the people around them.
 So leading these people to success to become leaders is a really great reason why you need a leadership team.
 All right?
 Because then you'll be able to duplicate yourself.
 You'll be able to grow the things that you're trying to accomplish.
 If you've got people that can lead others to success and testing, they will duplicate themselves.
 So when we come back, how to create your leadership team,
 once you've overcome a few of the lower level leadership problems yourself.
 [Music]
 Hey, it's Joel Fortner here.
 I'm the Vice President of Leadership Development on Crisis Team,
 and I oversee our next level mastermind business coaching program.
 Most business owners and leaders lack a clear path to succeed in business.
 They question whether they're making the right decisions,
 if they're focusing on the right things to really grow their business.
 If this is you, you need a coach in your life.
 Coaches help you make better decisions, navigate uncertainty, lead more effectively,
 and grow your business without sacrificing your life in your family.
 In their first year, our clients typically see an average of 67% increase in gross revenue
 and an average of 138% increase in net profit and regain hours of time.
 Our clients stay in the program for 3 1/2 years, simply because of the results they get.
 So if you're ready to run your business at the next level and see the growth you've been wanting,
 visit crissacardo.com/mastermind.
 Again, crissacardo.com/mastermind today.
 [Music]
 Alright, talking about creating a leadership team or assuming that you've been killing the leadership crazy cycle.
 We are assuming that you're getting out of the rut and focusing on others
 that you're making other people successful in their roles, that new leaders are now emerging
 and taking ownership or at least presenting themselves as potential new leaders.
 Now you're ready to go to the next level in your business, right?
 So before we dive into the why part of this or the how part, I want to emphasize what I said at the beginning.
 Leaders create the culture, the culture creates the company.
 Sadly, a lot of entrepreneurs, even at high levels, don't approach things this way in their business or with their teams.
 What do they do instead?
 They leave their culture to chance and chance creates their company, which is a problem because chance creating a company is going to equal.
 Chaos.
 These are the people and you may be one of these folks or you may know somebody that really hates their culture.
 Really is frustrated with how their team operates, the attitudes around the place, all that stuff.
 If they did not intentionally lead a great culture, put that in place, then they're frustrated with a lot of stuff.
 So if you leave it to chance, then chaos is going to creep in.
 So we'll get back to culture in a second, but let me pause here and ask you a question.
 How are you leaving things to chance in your business?
 Where are you not approaching things with purpose, with intentionality, and with clearly defined strategy?
 Let me put it this way, where are you experiencing a bit of that chaos that I'm talking about?
 Leaders can end up living in a stress world when around their office.
 We call this the leadership crazy cycle.
 And maybe it's a different kind of chaos for you.
 Maybe you like general confidence when approaching problems or situations or other people in your workplace.
 Fear can be a paralyzing factor even for leaders.
 Maybe you feel like you don't see many or any options with what you're facing.
 Or is there unnecessary drama on your team?
 Do your teams lack really clear expectations.
 Are you experiencing a disunity among members?
 Is miscommunication rampant or at least common in your business or in your team?
 If that is you or folks on your team, then get yourselves into the next level of leadership live event in April.
 It will absolutely change your life, your team, and your business.
 So go to crissacardal.com/events and reserve a spot for you and your leadership team.
 Registration is open and seats are selling out so don't put this off.
 The keynote lessons are geared to equip you to build high performing teams.
 Cultivate excellence in every corner of the business and grow your revenues.
 So sign up at crissacardal.com/events and get ready to get past what's holding you back.
 Now back to culture for me is summed up with two things.
 Actions and attitudes.
 It's the actions of your team.
 It's the actions of your leadership.
 It's also even the actions of your clients, your vendors.
 It's also the attitudes of your team, your leadership, your clients, your vendors.
 All of that is summing up culture for me.
 The good news is that leadership can create and cultivate both of these things.
 Leadership decides, this is acceptable and this is not.
 It just finds the way we do things and the way we don't do things.
 It describes that that over there is not us and this is who we are.
 Leaders have to detail the actions and attitudes that they want as well as the ones they don't want.
 It's also true for you at home.
 The husband and the wife as parents, the leaders in the home.
 Think about it, right?
 You set that tone.
 You define what's acceptable and what's not.
 You teach who we are and how we should act and the attitudes that we have.
 Hopefully you're doing that, right?
 Parents decide the actions and attitudes in their home and they lead their children in essence.
 The team as well as their guests and the clients to participate in the culture that they've created.
 Now, what happens if the children or the team are the ones who are creating the culture in the home?
 And believe me, this happens a lot.
 And it's not pretty.
 When that happens, the culture is chaos.
 Chaos is a direct result of a lack of quality leadership.
 And I can promise you that your children or your team will hate being there.
 Well, let me let me say it this way.
 Quality people champions will hate being there.
 Even folks who aren't that quality will probably still hate being in that type of a culture.
 Some of them just won't leave it.
 You're going to be like, "You're going to be in that type of chaos."
 You're going to take their business elsewhere and think about it.
 Where are they going to go?
 They're going to go someplace that cultures define.
 They're going to go someplace where expectations are met, where excellence is demonstrated.
 Because if they're not experiencing that with you, it's just a matter of what you're going to do.
 And if you're going to be in that type of situation, you're going to be in that type of situation,
 you're going to be in that type of situation, you're going to be in that type of situation.
 You're going to be in that type of situation, you're going to be in that type of situation, you're going to be in that type of situation.
 You're going to be in that type of situation, you're going to be in that type of situation.
 You're going to be in that type of situation, you're going to be in that type of situation.
 You're going to be in that type of situation, you're going to be in that type of situation.
 You're going to be in that type of situation, you're going to be in that type of situation.
 You're going to be in that type of situation, you're going to be in that type of situation.
 You're going to be in that type of situation, you're going to be in that type of situation.
 Do you not want that to be a part of their life, right?
 This is something that we have to change quickly.
 So if you're a leader who's maybe overloaded, you're not finding time to lead your team members, you're not making them more successful, you're not developing new leaders,
 then I can promise you this.
 Culture is sneaking in your back door.
 Chaos is in the house.
 It is being created right now because you aren't leading it intentionally.
 Chaos is, it may already be there, may already be a part, but if it's not, it is literally a matter of time.
 Here's a deal. Culture has to be cultivated.
 It's actually part of the name, right?
 Your current corporate culture is what you as a leader have been cultivating all along.
 So maybe you're thinking, yep, it's time for a change.
 Well, good, but here's a deal.
 For you to have a great culture, you have to understand that it literally has to be forced.
 Now, you have to force the culture that you want in your business, period.
 Now, maybe you're super small, maybe it's you and another team member or a couple of team members, and the word force seems really harsh.
 I get it, but go back to episode 164 and listen to that and just hear what I'm talking about when I say you need to force it.
 I don't mean it necessarily in a harsh harsh way, and then in some cultures, I absolutely mean it that way.
 The key is we're talking about intentionality.
 This is going to happen in my culture.
 What does that look like now?
 If you're small team and everybody's on the same page and people are very coachable and teachable and they take direction from you great and the word force may be extreme.
 But there's plenty of you out there that are like, nope, I know exactly what you mean dude.
 I've got to get in there and force this.
 So make it happen.
 Again, go back to episode 164, listen to that, get more information on it.
 Why are we talking so much about culture on an episode about leadership teams?
 Well, because it's one of the most important roles your leadership team takes on in helping you to cultivate the culture that you want to see in your business.
 So let's get practical about this.
 Let's talk about cultivating culture.
 Our leadership team helps replicate the most important parts of your leadership.
 Whether it's mission and vision or values and culture, whether it's decision making, all of these things must get replicated and replicated well.
 Right?
 A great leader spends their time creating stronger leaders giving resources to them, helping them to pursue and to develop into a great leader.
 They're not just focused on themselves.
 They pour themselves into other people and as a result of that, they transform those around them into leaders.
 So what do these new leaders do?
 They replicate you.
 They replicate you in themselves.
 They replicate you in others.
 They turn their own team members into great team members or even possibly new leaders.
 Right?
 So they're constantly taking this culture, these actions, these attitudes, these things that you're teaching and hopefully if it's done well,
 they're emulating that themselves.
 So it becomes a great domino effect, right?
 Faster, better than you could do alone.
 The more that they emulate you, the more that they carry the same culture, the more that they teach the same culture, the more that they help other people to accomplish the same culture.
 The more we get to duplicate you in this process.
 Right? So this is huge. If you don't cultivate your culture, then chaos comes in.
 And without the right culture, then nothing else is going to grow in your garden.
 Think about it.
 The soil of your business will become toxic.
 Yes, I just literally turned to a farming metaphor.
 This is why we talk so much about culture.
 And you need to cultivate culture as you grow. It can't just be something. It's not a one and done. You can't just put it in place.
 So what does that mean? It means that your leadership team will help you to check the quality, to check the consistency, and to check the clarity of your culture.
 Your leadership team will help you to create the culture you want. And that you all agree on and you all buy into, right?
 That everybody has ownership into this. They will help you to force it. They will help you to teach it. They'll help you to repeat it.
 And the great thing is done well. It will happen in every area of your business.
 This is just one aspect of where a leadership team can help you accomplish the things you're trying to accomplish. Now, as I say that, let me throw a fun caveat in here.
 Since your job is to make other people successful, not the other way around, then you have to make sure that the goals, the visions, everything that you have in place for your team, for your business, are clearly communicated as well.
 Right? So you can't just focus on, well, I want to make a great culture, but I'm not exactly sure which direction our business is going in, right? So if we're going to duplicate you, we need to make sure that we have a great strategy that we're pointing in the right, same unifying direction.
 Right? So that we can make people successful in pulling that off. If that's not something that's clear to you, then we've got to get that done first. It doesn't make any sense to put leaders in place and we're doing a shotgun approach and we have no unifying direction.
 And we're trying to set a culture and yet people are going in 17 different directions. So as you know, your strategy, your direction, you know, all that stuff, the vision for the company, the mission, the purpose for its existence, as you know these things, you put these things in place, then we can really hone in the rest of the team to move in that direction.
 So point number two, executing with excellence. So in addition to helping you to cultivate culture, you need a leadership team to help you to execute with excellence. No, I'm not saying it's impossible without them, but man, it is way much better when you have a phenomenal team. I can tell you, I have got a super strong team.
 So these guys are just doing a phenomenal job, they're executing with excellence all the time and keep in mind, you can't possibly execute everything with excellence and there's a level of reason of what you need to be excellent on, you know,
 we want to be excellent on everything that's customer facing if it all possible. We want to be excellent in how we lead each other and help each other and support each other, you know, but it is everything going to be exactly that way.
 It may not be, you know, I may not count the number of pieces of paper that have to go into the copy machine so that I'm excellent in making sure that I'm getting, you know, the maximum number of pages in there so that somebody else doesn't have to come back and do it, you know, five pages earlier.
 I think you get what I'm saying, right? So as much as we can be excellent, we need to be excellent and as we lead people to being great leaders, one of the key things is that we help them to lead excellence.
 So a thing to think about is, if you're the only one who's trying to make everything excellent, but you still have a team of people that work for you, then man, this is a really, really difficult uphill battle.
 If you can create a great leadership team that helps to create that excellence in the business, then the results are phenomenal. I mean, it is fun.
 You know, to watch my team focus on excellence in things that I don't even know they're doing. You know, I will learn about something that the leadership development team is doing and I didn't even know that it was happening and then I see the result of it and the result is excellent.
 And it wasn't something that I needed to put my fingers on, right? I have got layers, not just one leadership layer, I've got multiple layers of leaders.
 And so there are aspects that I don't need to be involved in. They are killing it, they're doing a great job. And the great thing is, is that I've been so intentional with creating a culture with my leadership team that the leaders are leading leaders to lead team members to success.
 It's fabulous. It is so fun. But it takes a lot of work and again, a lot of intentionally. So as I just said, it is your job as a leader to make your team successful.
 Well, here's the great thing. When you've made your leadership team successful, it becomes their job to make their teams successful.
 And this is where teams bust out of ruts. This is where teams bust out of, you know, go beyond platoes where they've been stuck, right? This is where it really starts to grow your business.
 And I mean it in a very fun way. This is where a team starts knocking out stuff that takes a team 50% bigger or 100% bigger than what they their size.
 The stuff that we accomplish with our team is phenomenal. And so many other businesses are shocked at how much we can get done, but it's because our team operates so incredibly well.
 So much excellence, right? That's at the core of what we do. That's what we think about. So for us, excellence is really about how we succeed. How are we being successful? What does that look like for us?
 If we're being successful and we're helping people change their businesses, their lives, their families, all this stuff, then we're being successful. And we must be excellent to accomplish that.
 Because if we weren't, there's no possible way we could get done as much as we get done with the size team that we have.
 So some resources for you, episode 425 is excellence as a work ethic that digs into more about what that actually looks like. We also talked about excellence as a different pursuit than perfection back in episode 504.
 So those are some great episodes to go listen to for learning more about excellence. So getting your team to champion excellence, you know, an essence being one of your core values and it's one of our core values.
 And every part of your business, depending upon the team size, it's most likely too big of a task for one person to do.
 Right, if you have a team the size where you need a leadership team as well, then guess what you need them to help the company the teams to champion excellence.
 And that is why I spend so much time focused on my leadership team itself. I don't focus on their teams. I do. I have teachable moments, you know, we do staff meetings, devils.
 We have all kinds of stuff where I'm helping, guiding and directing, but my major focus is making my leadership team great and then teaching them how to do the same thing. I spend a ton of time with them like we do weekly lunch meeting.
 Our leadership team meeting once a week is two, two and a half hours. We have a meal together where we're just talking about life. Folks, I've been doing this for cheese decades.
 Yeah, this team is we're pretty spot on, right, but it wasn't that way in the beginning. I had to start years ago teaching leaders what it's like to be a great leader, right?
 So we spent time together, we talk life together, then we dig in and we hit problems and solutions and very rarely do I just give a solution.
 I'm constantly leading, I'm constantly teaching, we're thinking through strategies, we're coming up with new concepts for new ideas, new things, anything that I can do to help them be excellent, to help them to make other people successful and to build confidence in them.
 These are all things that I do because it makes them better leaders. Then they're able to go in, make sure that they champion a culture of excellence, which is exactly what I want.
 This is what you should know as well. So when we come back, the third reason you need a leadership team, it has nothing to do with the bottom line, your leaders or your team.
 Hey, leaders, this is Joel Fortner, VP, Leadership Development, Acrystall Cardo's company. I have some questions for you. Do you as a leader feel like you are caught up in a crazy cycle of stress and task that never ends week to week?
 Do you ever have to deal with tough conversations with team members and you sit at home the next day, the night before worried about how's it going to go?
 What am I going to say? What are they going to say? Can I think fast enough on my feet? Is it going to be a total failure? Are you experiencing culture problems or that stuff that just breaks down trust and unity on your team?
 Well, if you can relate to any of this, this is a pretty typical leadership story in situation. Here's the thing though, it doesn't have to be that way and we can help you solve these things. We can help you become the leader that solves these problems and leads 13 to greater success.
 I want to introduce you to the key leaders program. This is an ongoing leadership development program that gives you the lesson track coaching and accountability you need to become the leader you can become to actually implement what you're actually learning in this program.
 Things fall apart without great leadership and intentionality. If you want to solve the problems that are holding you back from being a great leader, we can help you with this program, get in touch, Joel at ChrisLecordo.com
 We are back and we are talking about the third point as to why you need a leadership team.
 Of course, there's a talent more than this, but these are some of the top reasons I feel like should incentivize you to create a great leadership team.
 Because these are great outcomes, these are great opportunities for you to grow your business and that happens to be the third point dynamic growth.
 We've looked at the two biggest reasons that leadership teams are absolutely essential. They're going to help you cultivate culture.
 They're going to help you execute with excellence, but the third reason is more aligned with the heart of the leader and that is to grow to improve to get better.
 And I'm talking about you as a leader. So my leadership team is a huge reason for my constant transformation as a leader.
 Now I mentioned before the break that I'm open with them. I can fight with my leaders. I'm teaching. I'm growing. I'm pouring myself out to make them better.
 But here's the thing. They also know my struggles. They know where I'm weak. They know how to help me fill those gaps.
 My team is not surprised. I'm not just talking about my leadership team, the whole company, but my leadership team is not surprised that I am not a high sea.
 I am not a high detail person. I just never will be. I think about 25 years ago, I think I was a 10 sea.
 And today I think I'm right at a 40. That's in 25 years I've grown 30 points.
 And really that's to cover my butt. I am somebody who doesn't like to not have enough details so that things fall apart.
 I want to make sure I've got plenty of details to cover my butt, but that's not where I want to hang out.
 And my leadership team understands this. So they will support me in that. They will backfill things for me in that.
 They will anticipate areas that I'm not going to be highly detailed, but at the same time, they also understand that I am somebody who thinks very logically.
 You know, I'm going to tend to lead more from logic than I will emotion. Why? Because I'm a motion. Get you in trouble.
 I saved the emotion for communication to, you know, be on the same page with stuff. But if I'm leading on how to get something done or how to accomplish something, then I'm usually going to be thinking more in the logic side.
 What does it take to do this? What does it take to accomplish this? Now keep in mind, I'm also very high as as my highest, I as my second highest.
 So I'm a people person. So I'm also going to think through the emotional side of how is this going to affect people.
 But my team understands, Chris is probably going to go, you know, logistical in the very beginning.
 Because that's where my brain, that's how I think. I think what does this look like? How can this possibly fail? I go through all kinds of stuff, right?
 It helps them to be able to anticipate me because when they can, then they can help me by backfilling or a week by helping me to think through things that I would naturally think through all that stuff.
 It's phenomenal to have people who already recognize Chris is going to need this this way because guess what? I'm doing it all the time going there direction.
 I'm constantly thinking about what does this leader need to hear? How does this leader receive information?
 You know, how do I need to share this with this person? So it is great when you have leaders that are constantly thinking about you as well, right? That are, and I'm maybe constantly is extreme, but they are spending time thinking about how do I
 communicate the best way with Chris that he's going to understand all of this? How do I get him the details that he needs? How do I not give him too many details? All of those pieces of information.
 So another great thing is that they can help you to avoid pitfalls, right? They can help you to avoid mistakes, things you're just not seeing.
 When you are blessed with a great leadership team that you can trust, that you know that they're going to tell you the truth, then they will help you to see your blind spots. Man, that's phenomenal.
 Well, let me say it this way. For the person who is willing to hear it, take it, it's phenomenal. It is great to have somebody point out my blind spots. It is great to have somebody that I can trust.
 You're not looking for somebody who wants to just come in and be controlling and tell you how all the things that are wrong with you. You want somebody you can trust that what they're saying is actually accurate, that they're speaking into stuff and pointing out things that are blind spots that actually exist, right?
 You're not looking for somebody who wants to be controlling jerk, but when you do have a leadership team that you can trust, then you can actually address problems more dynamically.
 It is something that you can dig deeper into issues. I can tell you as a leader, it is so frustrating when you're trying to talk through a complex problem, you're trying to talk through, you know, maybe even teaching somebody on how to handle a complex problem.
 And they are stuck on themselves. They're focused on trying to prove to you that they're worthy or they're trying to protect themselves from not sounding stupid or making bad decisions.
 All you're trying to do is solve the problem, you know, or present the problem and have them solve it. Man, that is difficult. When you get a solid leadership team, then it's amazing how easy it is to focus on growth, focus on perspective gathering, focus on problems, all right?
 It's so much more than you can do by yourself. So when you have that type of a leadership team, you have got so much more perspective.
 When you have a leadership team that is fighting for quality perspective, that gains quality perspective, then it is gold. It is so powerful because you're not the only one trying to get the best information.
 So, it's a problem. It's the best you can't grow the business. Instead, the team begins to drive it themselves. I got to tell you, again, that is so fun.
 Secondly, if you can and you have the ability to grow a leadership team is going to change your leadership. It's going to force you to grow in your leadership, which is fabulous. It's going to push you to excel.
 It's going to push you to keep learning. It's going to push you to stay focused on strategy and vision and mission because you will have people who are hungry for that growth.
 Here's the progression that we'd like to see in leaders. Number one, that they develop them into leaders. Those people that are ready are able to become leaders and we can see.
 And answer the question, what makes me think this person can lead people to success? The night can develop those people in the leaders. Number three, they develop leadership teams.
 And in a circle that a leader gets invited to is a reward for loyalty. This isn't something that you're putting your favorite people into this. This is about replicating you and others.
 So that you can grow in scale of company. Simple as that. Now, should you have people on your leadership team that you don't like or don't want to work with? No.
 And then you can't do that.
 So we're looking for a good balance here. But when you get the right balance, when you get the right people, it is so fun. I can't say that enough today.
 And that's ready for a team of leaders. Number one, when you can't handle everything on your own, especially if you want to scale and grow your business, you know that there's too much work, there's too much stress for one person.
 You're just not in a position to continue to pull this off on your own. Number two, when you know you don't have all the answers, which you should be there right now.
 When you know that you don't have all the necessary perspective and all the necessary information to effectively lead and grow your organization.
 Right, so you're probably there already, but you know that's a great indicator. Number three, when you know that we is more powerful than me.
 Now Chris, you're saying that I need this leadership team, but what if they don't have anybody to lead? Well, that actually doesn't work out. Does it?
 You can't put somebody, you can people do it and I'm usually push against this. I always push against it.
 You don't need somebody on a leadership team if they're not leading people.
 It doesn't mean that they're not in a high position in your company, but just understand if there isn't people for them to lead, then they shouldn't really be on a leadership team.
 A word of caution, just because a leadership team exists doesn't mean that it's effective.
 Just because a leadership team is in place doesn't mean that they're great.
 Now if your leaders don't have the same DNA as you, then be careful, be cautious. They should.
 If they don't, they're not going to replicate you or your DNA. They're not going to guard your culture.
 Be careful for leaders who love their position, they're tied all their rank, and not so much the people that they have around them.
 There's plenty of people who love the concept of being a leader because it comes to the title.
 Waste the time. Waste of time. You want people who enjoy hopefully love making other people better.
 Also, avoid leaders whose heads are in the sand. If they're always stuck on the current problems, they can't get past any of that.
 They don't know how to solve anything like that, then this is probably not the best person to put in a leadership role.
 So building a strong leadership team of people who compliment each other, that's going to cause the culture in your company to shift.
 It's going to become more energetic. It's going to become more dynamic.
 I guarantee you you will see more productivity. You should be seeing more growth.
 And I can promise you this. Your client will be attracted to it.
 When your clients love your culture, man, they will preach your culture. They become walking billboards for you.
 So this is a great thing to have in place.
 Not only that, but the people within your organization will drive your mission.
 Whatever your purpose is for existence, whatever your company's purpose is for existence.
 Your team, the people in your organization will help you drive that.
 Our mission here is worshiping God by loving people and getting individuals and organizations to greater perspective.
 That's what we want.
 That's what I want.
 And our team shows up to drive that mission.
 So pouring your time and energy into strong leaders in a leadership team is going to turn your good business into a great one.
 And if it's already great business, it's going to make it even better than that.
 It's going to allow you to replicate and radiate your influence throughout the company.
 And eventually everyone at the organization will start to think act and speak the same way.
 You will see that culture transfer to every person in the business.
 If it doesn't, then chances are they're not going to stay there long.
 So when this becomes the culture in your business, you'll be talking about how strong your team is and how fun it is, how much you enjoy it every day.
 So that is all the time we have for today.
 Hopefully this has been helpful for you.
 As always, we want you to take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 (upbeat music)