 There are plenty of things in this life that will zap your strength, steal your courage, and drain your resilience.
 What are you going to do about it? That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life, and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show. Folks, I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 One of the topics that we get asked a lot to talk about on the show is along the lines of strength, courage, and resilience.
 So it's not strange when you think about it. There are plenty of things in life that zap our strength, that steal our courage, and drain us of our resilience.
 Just about everyone alive today might feel that they could be a little bit more resilient.
 These are tough times, and we've no promise that tomorrow will be a better rose, either.
 I think everybody listening to this would agree that there's a really good chance that tomorrow is not going to be a better rose.
 Maybe we'll, hopefully we'll. But we don't know.
 And we do know that times are tough. You know, for a lot of people times just continue to get tough or Bruce Lee, I love that I get to quote, Bruce Lee.
 Someone known for his strength and endurance and resilience once said, "Do not pray for an easy life. Pray for the strength to endure a difficult one."
 And folks, I so agree with that. You know, it used to be early on in my prayer life when tough times are difficult times would come up.
 I would pray that God would get me out of it. And Lord, help me to get out of this. Help me, you know, take the situation why do whatever it takes.
 And one day, God just kind of knocked me upside the head and he's like, "Well, if you want me to remove this difficult time, then quit asking me to make you into the person I want you to be."
 I started realizing a lot of the difficult times I went through were because I kept asking for God to make me a better version, make me more Christlike.
 Right? So it's interesting that I started recognizing God uses these difficult times in my life to mold and shape me.
 So instead of asking for God to get me out, I started asking for him to teach me exactly what he wanted me to know.
 Help me to learn from what it is you're trying to teach me or what you want me to learn from this situation.
 I have also added in there, do what it is fast as you can because I don't want to sit in this, but I want to learn and grow.
 I want to become a better version. And so if a difficult time or a tough time is something that God wants me to experience, then so be it.
 But Lord, please help me to learn and grow in this.
 Resilience is the capacity to withstand or to recover quickly from difficulties.
 It's genuine toughness. And if you're somebody who goes, "Well, I'm not tough."
 Let me say it another way. I want you to think about resilience. Think about a stretchy dough.
 If somebody who likes to cook, if you stretch it out, is it stretched out or does it bounce back?
 Right? Is it go back into the previous form? That for me resilience is something that can take a hit and stay where it is.
 Or maybe it has a very quick recovery. It doesn't have a long recovery.
 A lack of resilience is that dough that one stretched out that's it. It's done. It's not stretchy.
 Right? It just is taken on a new shape or it's not coming back to its original shape.
 So it's not very resilient. We want to be resilient people.
 We want to be able to be a person who knows how to perform in good times, but also how to stay strong and courageous in determined in the tough times.
 And the trying times. Because they're all around us.
 So how do we make sure we can bounce back? What kind of picture do you have in your mind when you think about what it looks like to be resilient?
 Think back to some rough periods in your life. Right?
 What if you had been more resilient and whether some of your tougher storms?
 Obviously you're here. So you did whether the storms. But was there a more resilient way to do so?
 What if you've been able to pair up under certain stresses in certain difficulties in life?
 What things have looked different? Would you have made different decisions? Would you have had different outcomes?
 I can tell you there are things earlier in my life that the outcomes would have been different if I would have been more resilient.
 Right? If I was able to take knocks easier back then and bounce right back. What would it look like for you to encounter some of the same adversities today?
 What it looked different? I can tell you for me considerably.
 I think I'm much more resilient now than I was earlier in life.
 And that's because of a lot of the things that we're going to talk about today. So here's the deal. You can grow your resilience.
 You can put things in place to make your struggle. We come back learning how to be more resilient.
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having a lack of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life, it all starts with having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with.
 Whether it be at work, whether it be at home. The best way to do that is to go to crissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your team two day.
 Get it for your family members. Today, as you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to crissacrittle.com/store 2 day.
 Well folks, we live up on what we call the ridge. We live up on a ridge.
 It's about 900 feet up and from where most of the people live in Tennessee or at least in the National Area.
 And routinely, a couple of times a year, a few times a year, it is not uncommon for the power to get knocked out.
 There can be some high winds from time to time.
 For some reason, I still don't understand this, but it's common a couple of times a year for our power to get knocked out.
 We've got to go put things in place. We know where the flashlights are. We know where the candles are.
 We know where the generators are. We know all of those things. We've done this before. We've been through this trip before.
 Before we know what to do, we've become incredibly confident in knowing what we're doing when that storm knocks something out.
 And many times, because we've experienced this before, many times we just waited out a little bit.
 And we know that it's going to come back on in 25 minutes or so. Not easy to do if it is super cold or super hot.
 But no matter what happens, we know how to handle the situation. It's like this something takes over inside of us and says, "Go do this, this, this, this."
 And so this is the first thing that we're going to talk about when it comes to being resilient.
 How do we make it where you can bounce back? How do we make it where when the negative hits you or the trying time hits you, you bounce back?
 So let's let's use a saw this great example on time of like a T-ter-tater. You've got that full crumb in the center.
 Think of negative things on one side, trying times difficult is on one side and positive things on another side.
 If it's perfectly balanced, then it's just sitting there well balanced. But what if something lands on the trying time?
 Well, then that starts to drop down. And the positive things, now they're not even two or outwying the negative things.
 I don't know the other thing. Well, then it continues to weigh heavier on the negative side.
 Well, now let's look at it as not a perfectly, you know, the full crumb doesn't stay in the center.
 But as one side gets heavier that the full crumb shifts, like the T-ter-tater slides in that direction.
 So think about it where if you're getting negative after negative after negative, eventually that T-ter-tater board will slide towards that negative side.
 And the full crumb will be more towards a positive, making it much more difficult to bounce back to the positive side.
 So hopefully that makes sense. Hopefully you get that picture in your mind. Now let's switch it around.
 What happens when we overload the positive side so much so that the full crumb slides backwards towards the negative side?
 And anytime something negative hits that negative side, it bounces off or maybe it lifts on the positive side.
 But the positive side goes back down.
 That's the resilience we're looking for.
 Right? We want to be able to be resilient that when tough things hit us or hard times hit us or difficulties hit us, that it doesn't knock us down.
 Or if it does knock us hard or able to bounce back because of all the things that are overloaded on the positive side.
 So we're going to talk through some things today that you can do to make that positive side out way the negative so that full crumb slides.
 So it makes it really harder so negative things bounce off of you much easier. Right?
 The first thing is training. Training, training, training.
 I want to give you three keys about training which will help you to create that shift in focus.
 Right? That will help you to balance better and be able to be resilient.
 Now I've said these things before with regards to the business world, but the same is true for us personally.
 So let's kind of adapt them for us as individuals.
 The number one that are the first key is training forms the foundation of an organization's culture.
 Now culture breaks down and do actions and attitudes. So what are we saying here?
 You're training. You know we're talking about your routines, your habits, your patterns.
 You're training will predict how well you perform under pressure.
 So let me say it this way.
 If you want to see how well you're going to perform under pressure in the future, then take a look at the routines, the habits and the patterns happening now.
 I've talked about people who are conditioned because of their thinking patterns to be traumatized over the little things.
 I almost spilled my coffee. Oh my gosh, my day is ruined.
 You know, I think we're all seeing those people right now where the word trauma is being used in situations that are not traumatic,
 but they believe that they are and they've been conditioned to believe that almost spilling their coffee is ruining their day or some aspect of the day.
 How is your training keeping you from being in that position?
 How is your training putting you in a place to perform better under pressure?
 So that when you almost spill your coffee, you just almost spilled your coffee and you get over it and you move on.
 You don't freak out. You're not traumatized. Your day is not ruined.
 What happens if you do spill your coffee?
 Dang it. Spilled my coffee. The sucks. I got to, I don't know, you know, spilled it on my pants. Got to change my pants. Got to do something and whatever.
 All right, let's get that done and get moving.
 The things that you are doing right now, the habits, the routines, the patterns that you have are going to help you to be able to quickly bounce back.
 What would be a pattern in that situation? What would be a great training or habit?
 Well, I have to solve the problem.
 Instead of sitting in the problem, complaining about the problem, wanting other people to hear about my problem,
 putting a social media post out about my problem, what if I just fixed the problem?
 What if I just solved the problem and moved on?
 What if part of my thinking was, it doesn't matter what anybody thinks about my current situation, solve it and get over it.
 I don't need to post socially and see how many people I can get to sympathize with my current situation.
 As a matter of fact, social media should not be by first thought. Clean pants should be.
 What do I do about this, build coffee?
 What if instead of having a bad reaction?
 What should it look like to have a bad reaction? There's nothing wrong with that. I usually, for me, something like that. The first 30 seconds are shoot. That was stupid.
 But I'm somebody who very quickly goes into solution mode.
 Well, it's done. Go do something about it. Right? Go fix it. Go solve it. Why?
 Because what's the point in sitting in it? It's a waste of time.
 Yeah, but Chris, I could get people to feel sorry for me.
 Okay. Well, if that's what you want to do, I guess go after it.
 But I bet you start spilling coffee on yourself or how to...
 If that's your goal, then you have to understand is, is that your patterns, your habits, your reactions, your routines, they're going to shape the way you are resilient.
 So take a look at what you're doing now. Number two, training means cultivating diligent, consistent disciplines.
 So we're talking about repetition here. So let me give you an example.
 What is the first thing you do in the morning?
 Well, if you're like most people, then you probably reach for your phone.
 You probably look at your notifications. You probably read through some emails.
 You might look at the news and some negativity. You might determine it's better to stay in bed.
 You probably scroll through some social media to determine you need to stay in bed.
 Is that what you do? Is any of that stuff sound familiar?
 Or do you center on yourself? Do you focus on something quality? Do you find time to maybe take a moment to breathe or to pray?
 Or if you're not a believer, have at least some quiet time not focusing on negative things.
 Not focusing on all the things that are telling you your day has already begun.
 Read, meditate, journal, something like that.
 We're talking about conditioning ourselves. We're talking about strengthening our core, our ability to be resilient.
 So for us, for me and my wife, the first thing is to get up and get into Bible study.
 For me, I can get moving pretty quickly. My wife does negative few minutes.
 The coffee needs to hit for her. So she might need a little bit of a non-educational first few moments.
 But we get into prayer and scripture.
 We try to start our days with God. We don't try. We do.
 That's our focus. Not every single day, not 365 days a year, work out that way.
 Sometimes we might have had a difficult night or maybe we didn't sleep well.
 And so it takes a little bit longer. Maybe we have to spend a little bit of time focusing on something else or just have conversations.
 But for the bulk of the year, almost every single day, that's what our day looks like.
 Getting up and creating, not even creating. It's already pattern. It's a habit. It's routine.
 Spending time with God, conditioning ourselves, growing ourselves.
 We make sure that things don't impede that time.
 We don't let things get into that time frame. Again, I'm saying, out of 365 days, there's probably a handful of days that it doesn't work out that way.
 But the bulk of it, it does.
 That's important. Number three, key number three.
 Training determines the team's resilience to future challenges.
 So here's the bottom line. The more we embrace discipline, hardships, the more we toil in good times.
 The more easily we preserve during the truly tough times.
 So if you get outside and go for a run every day or some other routine for training, then one right stay comes.
 You're up to the challenge. If you never get out there. If you're the, you know, couch to 5K type of person, well, then you've got a process to speed on, right?
 But if you're somebody who gets out there and trains won't enough, then you're going to be ready.
 However, if you're not training regularly or if you're not hitting a gym on a regular basis, then guess what?
 You're not going to be able to, you know, deadlift something over your head.
 It's not going to happen, right? Your body, well, what it is. You're not going to be able to put decent amount of weight over your head.
 So the question is, how are you preparing yourself for more weight, for more adversity, for more difficulty?
 What are the things that you're doing to build up that resilience? Again, I want to go back to this, this concept of this, this focus on that is shifted on the teeter totter.
 The more weight you put on that positive side and think of the positives as being training, as being quality habits, as being quality disciplines.
 Then when something hits the negative side, it almost bounces off, right? Because there's so much weighted on the positive side.
 So training matters immensely. Point number two, fight the fear.
 You have got to fight fear. I want you to notice something that Teddy Roosevelt once said,
 He said, "I wish to preach the doctrine of the strenuous life, the life of toil and effort of labor and strife, to preach that highest form of success, which comes not to the one who desires mere easy peace,
 but to the one who does not shrink from danger, from hardship or from bitter toil."
 Now folks, I got to say, outside of places like this, that's probably not a message you have heard lately.
 But that is a message we believe. I enjoy the easy path, but I will tell you this, it is not something I'm looking for.
 I enjoy working hard. I enjoy preparing myself for strenuous stuff. I enjoy being able to work through difficult situations and problems.
 I enjoy getting out and working hard physically, working hard mentally and strenuously with my team. I enjoy these things. Why?
 Because it just matters more. The outcome is so much better. The outcome is so much bigger. It makes it easier to work through things.
 It's amazing how much we can work through as a business or as individuals because we've been doing it for so long.
 We've allowed ourselves to work through strenuous stuff. It's funny for new team members who come on.
 A lot of times they don't want anybody to know that they've made a mistake that they've screwed up and we've got to say it around here.
 Listen, if you're not making mistakes, you're not doing anything. You're not moving stuff around. So don't be fearful that you've screwed something up.
 We have a simple system. What happened? How did it happen? How do we fix it? How do we make sure it never happens again?
 Let's move on. Just don't keep doing the same mistake over and over again.
 The key is if you're not Boston at doing something, then you might not be making mistakes. If you're not making any mistakes, I'm going to start asking some questions. Why aren't you?
 Is there more that you could be doing?
 Right. So I will tell you, I like that. I like what Teddy said.
 You know, because the more you actually make it through a strenuous life, the more you've focused on it, I'm not saying go make your life difficult.
 Teddy's not saying that. He's not saying go make life painful. What he's saying is, put out effort, toil, work hard, do things that matter.
 The more you do that, the more resilient you will become. So when tough times come along, you don't cringe at them.
 I, you know, it's funny how people think I don't stress. So what he times my wife has said, you just don't show stress.
 And I'm like, really? I feel like I do. He's like, you don't. You just solve stuff. You move on to things.
 You know, you get things done. And the truth is, I do. I do that a lot. But I have plenty of stress in my life.
 I think it's just that the habits that have been built up don't allow me to sit in it. Right? And I don't think there's any point in just sitting in stress. I want, I want out. I want to do something about I want to fix it.
 How do I get over this? And many times it starts with prayer.
 Lord, you already know what I'm going through. So instead of me trying to fix this on my own, let me come to you first.
 Teach me what you want to teach me. And then help me to solve this and move forward.
 The truth is, when we tend to gravitate towards ease and comfort and we shy away from pain and toil, then unfortunately, we shrink from danger. We shrink from hardship.
 We shrink from toil.
 We do it all the time. If that is not our, you know, if we're not working at becoming stronger and more resilient in those areas, then we will shrink from danger hardship, toil in relationships and our finances and our
 physical being, our mental being, our mental labor, our self discipline, definitely our spiritual discipline, you know, on and on.
 Those are areas that we're going to shy away from in fear, keep us from focusing on the hard stuff, the toil, the labor.
 Right, it keeps us from going after and tackling the bigger challenges in our lives. It keeps us confined, contained. It keeps us without courage.
 Fear will hold you back. It's going to keep you from getting up and slaying the dragon.
 Right, it's going to fear is going to keep you thinking, hey, the dragon's out there ready to devour me. I'm just going to stay in bed.
 Right, fear can cause you to be left, arctic.
 I just hate the thought of that, right, fear can keep you from being resilient.
 Right, fear will paralyze you. And for a lot of people, I hate to say it, but for a lot of people, fear is a consistent thought.
 It's a consistent reality. What if what about this? What if this happens over here?
 The truth is, fear is lapses of our strength. It keeps us down. It keeps us drained.
 It keeps determination away from us.
 And the truth is it ruins your resilience. So go back to that folkrum on that teeter totter.
 Think of fear as being the heavy weight on that negative side, where that folkrum shifts all the way towards the positive side, because the head and the negative side is so heavy.
 Tell me if this doesn't make sense. How many times have you seen people who are so full of fear that when positive stuff comes their way?
 It's that positive side. It bounces off.
 Right, because the negative outweighs it doesn't allow it to stay.
 So thing is, got to fight the fear.
 When we come back, adding perspective to your perseverance.
 Freedom, it's so powerful.
 I don't rejuvenate and almost renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So I was very comfortable there. That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it. It's going to be hard.
 It's going to be even better on the other side.
 For me, it was just very refreshing.
 And I want to say life, give me, give me, and really was.
 You know, I would go to the next level of life again and probably again and probably again.
 Because it's so powerful.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of self-awareness and freedom that they have,
 or maybe you're just curious what the process would look like for you, then head on over to crissacardo.com/nextlevellife.
 So point three is the power of perspective.
 So let me rejuverse from the message.
 Don't lose a minute in building on what you've been given.
 Complimenting your basic faith with good character, spiritual understanding, a lurk discipline, passionate patience.
 Each dimension fitting into and developing the others with these qualities active and growing in your lives,
 no day will pass without its reward.
 Just so strong, so powerful, character, understanding or perspective, discipline, endurance.
 These are all connected and they all have a payoff, a reward for the person who uses them.
 For the person who spends time building on them.
 The person who doesn't the person who's day is focused on building their social media following and getting the most number of likes.
 And the person who's focused on fear and building their, you know,
 concerned with all the things that might possibly happen, maybe that person doesn't have that reward.
 Their reward is negativity. Their reward is not getting through the difficulties.
 Their reward is feeling pummeled.
 Right? We need to learn to build on what we've been given, engaging them every day each day is gift.
 It's like we talked about in an episode five, 11 mastering time and money each day is a gift you have today to build on that.
 So speaking of building, see that fun transition right there, how are you building your team in your business?
 Are you approaching things with purpose, with intentionality and clearly defined strategy?
 Leaders can end up living in a stress whirlwind around their office.
 We call that the leadership crazy cycle and maybe you've noticed some of that craziness or maybe you lack general confidence when approaching problems
 situations or other people in your workplace.
 Fear can be a paralyzing factor even for leaders.
 Maybe you feel like you don't see many or any options with what you're facing or is there unnecessary drama on your team?
 Do your teams lack really clear expectations?
 Are you experiencing a disunity among members?
 Is miscommunication rampant or at least common?
 If that's you or folks on your team then get yourselves into the next level leadership live event in April, it will absolutely change your life, your team and your business.
 Go to Chrissacrittle.com/events and reserve a spot for you and your leadership team.
 Registration is open and seats are selling out so don't put this off.
 The keynote lessons are geared to equip you to build a high-performing team, cultivate excellence in every corner of your business and grow your revenues.
 So go to Chrissacrittle.com/events and get ready to get past what's holding you back.
 Now let's get back to building up your resilience.
 So let's add one more component that will help you restore and replenish your resilience.
 Resilience is as much about your perspective as it is perseverance.
 So they go hand in hand.
 What is it that you don't know that you need to know in order to push through whatever that is go after it?
 And what's true about fear is true also about the unknown.
 In fact, much of what we fear is the unknown.
 It's the imagine it's usually not based on reality or even probability.
 This might happen. What if this does happen?
 And usually when you ask somebody how many times has that happen?
 Well it hasn't happened yet.
 Well then why are you worried about it?
 Why are you fearful? Why are you concerned? Why are you affecting your mind and your day?
 Why are you affecting your resilience by not focusing on something positive? Why are you focused on the fear?
 So whatever the thing is that you need to know that you need to grow in, that you need to learn,
 get after it.
 Because here's a deal. Not facing it or ignoring the unknown or fearing the unknown.
 It can absolutely tax your resilience.
 Ignorance is not bliss, folks.
 It's not. Sometimes we avoid doing the hard things, slaying those dragons in our lives,
 because we're afraid of what we might find there.
 Some people avoid doing their taxes, not smart.
 They may avoid a spouse because of conflict or a family member because of conflict.
 They won't get that lump checked out that they should have had checked out.
 Some of them aren't going to look at their bills and figure out what needs to be taken care of.
 Some of them will not come through next-level life, even though they know that they're supposed to.
 They should.
 Sometimes we, why? Because what they might find? The number one fear, depending upon personality style of your D,
 you're going to say, "I don't fear anything."
 The number one concern coming through next-level life is the unknown.
 The least attended, let me speak to all you high eyes out there.
 All the high eyes are afraid that they're going to find out something bad or negative or something they don't want to see about themselves.
 And so they don't show up.
 They, they least attended personality style.
 It's just crazy.
 People are afraid of find that, well, what if I find out something I don't like?
 What if you do?
 Fix it. Do something about it.
 But here's the crazy thing.
 And over 500 next-level life events, not one single person we've had.
 Plenty of eyes that have come through.
 Now, one single person is walked out going, "Oh my gosh, I so don't know myself.
 I'm so shocked and stunned. All the things I learned about myself.
 What people walk out saying is, "Wow, that was eye-opening."
 "Wow, I've never seen it that way."
 And they walk out with a plan.
 So folks, what you've got to understand is the thing that you're afraid of.
 Whether if it's being afraid of something that you might find,
 the problem isn't just going to go away. If the problem exists or if there's something there,
 it does a go away with you ignoring it.
 And just what?
 The fear is going to where you are.
 What if, what if, what if, but what if I found it?
 What if, you know, what if this thing over here does it?
 What if this? All that's going to do is where you are.
 So take the initiative.
 List out what your fears are.
 Game perspective on them.
 Dispel the lies. Define the facts.
 Get to reality.
 You can't replenish or restore your resilience until you've gained perspective on what's real
 and what you're really dealing with.
 And chances are that you're going to find out that the fear was way, way, way worse than actually tackling the problem.
 I think there's 500 folks that have come through next level of life that would aim in the daylight.
 That's out of that right there.
 Usually the fear is way worse than the actual thing you're going to discover.
 So throughout this up, I want to take a little test.
 Let's see which side of this you score more points on.
 So try and keep some score here.
 There's five things that resilient people tend to and there's five things that non-resolient people tend to.
 So let's start with the five things resilient people tend to.
 I want you to tell me how you score number one.
 They maintain emotional equilibrium and their composure under stress.
 It doesn't mean that they're not experiencing it.
 It doesn't mean that it's not difficult and stressful.
 It just means that they don't lose their minds.
 They don't, you know, they're able to hold their selves together because they see that there's a
 better way out or better purpose.
 Number two, one upset.
 They do not agitate others by spreading tension and anxiety.
 Number three, they tolerate ambiguity and uncertainty and adapt readily to new situations.
 Number four, they hand them mistakes or setbacks with poison grace.
 They stay rock steady.
 Number five, they put stressful experiences into perspective and do not dwell on them.
 What you score on the head.
 Now let's talk about the five things non-resolient people tend to.
 They can easily get agitated and/or afraid one up against the deadline.
 They ruminate after difficult situations, tough conversations or conflict.
 Now, ruminating is not a bad thing, but how long do they spend time thinking about that situation and running through it over and over again.
 Right? Number three, they have trouble staying focused.
 They quickly are losing their train of thought.
 Let's say it that way.
 Number four, they have little bandwidth for dealing with the unknown.
 It is an absolute stressor.
 Number five, every new problem tends to wear them down and they get overwhelmed.
 So here's the question.
 Did you notice yourself is being more on the resilient or the non-resolient side of things?
 Which one?
 If you find yourself being more on the resilient side of things and I will tell you, I do,
 but I can tell you the younger version of me, non-resolient.
 Mostly, still resilient aspects probably in the middle, but definitely much more on the resilient side now.
 Because of all the things we've talked about today, right?
 Putting in those training, having an actual game plan of becoming more resilient.
 So my question to you is what's your game plan?
 What are you going to change about your habits, your routines, your patterns, your training, right?
 What do you need to eliminate fear, fear of failure, fear of getting let down, fear of being disappointed or hurt?
 What do you need to eliminate those things?
 What do you need to gain perspective about what you're facing?
 Have you quantified your strengths and weaknesses?
 What did you learn coming out of your past performance?
 Did you gain some quality perspective from your last failure?
 So use the perspective to train today for a better tomorrow.
 If you do these things, you will be creating a much greater level of resilience in yourself.
 And I can tell you this is a resilience that you will be able to draw strength on and from for years to come.
 So put these things in place, make the decision today to build on all of these aspects, to make you more resilient.
 Get that teeter, that folk removed more towards that negative side and get that positive side way down with training with habits, with patterns, with things that you do that you work on.
 To make you more resilient.
 So when the negative things hit you, they bounce off.
 They can't flip your teeter, tater.
 There's your picture for the day.
 Well folks, that's all the time we have for today.
 I hope this information has helped you.
 As always, we want you to take this information and change your leadership.
 Change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]