 On today's show, a lot of parents avoid complex topics with their kids like money, but
 if parents aren't teaching their children, then someone else is, and that's not a great
 plan.
 What parents need to know about teaching their children finances, that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal of Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover
 that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today we are talking about a topic that a lot of parents avoid.
 And I know a lot of you following us, hopefully you've done a really good job of this,
 but I know a lot of people still do.
 They still struggle.
 And what is that topic?
 Money with their kids.
 It's one thing to struggle with money as individuals, but man, what are we teaching our
 kids?
 Some may think that their children are too young to learn, or that the topic is too complicated
 to explain either way, avoiding the topic does not set their kids up for success in the
 long run.
 It may actually be doing them more harm than good.
 Some of you may have grown up in a house.
 We're talking about money was taboo.
 You get what I'm saying.
 On today's show, we've got an expert on this topic, and that is page, Cornedett, author of
 the best selling spend then series, that collection of children's books, teaching financial
 literacy by simplifying, traditionally complicated concepts.
 So do me a favor and welcome to the show page.
 Page, welcome.
 Thank you.
 Thanks, Chris, for having me on today.
 How it's so good to have you here.
 You're not a stranger to us and what we do here.
 You've got a lot going on.
 You've got some great stuff that we're going to talk about today.
 And we have had the honor of facilitating you as you went through your own next level of life.
 How many years ago was that?
 That five or six?
 I want to say five or six.
 Yes, I was like the lifetime ago, but a lot has happened.
 With COVID and there, too.
 Gosh, yeah, it is so funny.
 COVID seems like that one year was like three years.
 It's just crazy.
 But.
 So we are joking around before we started this because you've got your nice winter,
 a turtle neck on, you've got snow on the ground.
 We have a ridiculously warm day.
 It's 69 degrees here.
 It's just crazy.
 So it's so funny how you guys have got it coming down or at least snow on the ground.
 For some strangers and more warm enough.
 Right.
 So you've been through next level of life.
 Let's start there.
 How was your experience?
 What's happened in life since?
 Yeah, that's it's kind of crazy to reflect back now six years later.
 It was it was a pivotal point in my life.
 What I say I was 26, 27.
 And I really was at a crossroads with a lot of things with my family,
 with what I wanted to do with my life.
 There was just a lot that was going on.
 And it was it was really divine timing to have something open up.
 And I was able to come down and meet with Joel.
 And it was through a friend that told me about it.
 And it just it all lined up perfectly.
 And it was amazing experience.
 I had it was two days, but it felt so much more than that.
 Like it's so juicy and enriching because you're going through your whole life.
 And if I remember correctly, the family roots like in vines, you guys use a lot of
 a beautiful, you know, visual ains to really talk about who you came from where things
 came up, your childhood and going forward.
 So it was one of the most amazing experiences.
 I have recommended it to so many people.
 And it just it helped enlighten me just of what what I have, you know, and what I came with
 and what was my upbringing and how to go forward from that.
 So I loved it with you all.
 And I still think about things.
 Oh yeah, remember we talked about that.
 So it was a great experience.
 You guys are really like game changers and life savers.
 Well, I love it because of what we're talking about today.
 And you know, you are, you know, like we're the same way.
 We love teaching.
 We have hearts, the heart of a teacher.
 But for so many kids is not something, you know, a lot, not a lot of people love the teach
 kids.
 And that's where I started teaching, believe it or not.
 Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
 Junior high youth ministry way back in the day.
 That's, you know, that that has always been my heart is to help kids.
 And so this topic is so nearing dear.
 And so I'm so glad we're talking about this.
 I'm so glad you wrote this book.
 And the thing I love about it is your perspective.
 You know, the, the, what you came from, which makes this so amazing.
 So I want to get, I've got probably way more questions than we will even get to.
 But let's kind of talk about your books.
 You just published my dad's class last year.
 This book is, it's geared towards parents, correct?
 Right.
 geared towards parents.
 And I wrote my financial children's books first, really from the lessons within my dad's
 class, making it really clear and really concise with stories.
 And pictures and making it very fun for kids.
 Sunders and I was like, okay, that's great.
 You know, grandparents and kids read these books.
 And then what, right?
 Like, okay, so where's like the parent version for that?
 And so I started reflecting of like, oh, I really need it, you know, write this book about
 my upbringing and how I learned from my dad and, you know, how in, you know, his structure
 and how he did it and the really, like, clearness that my father taught us children.
 And so yeah, I launched it last year and it's really fun actually looping back to the next
 level life, like thinking, my gosh, it's almost seven years since doing next level life.
 And now launching a book about my childhood.
 There's definitely that was very, it's like having a baby.
 Like, you're, it's like a part of you.
 You're like, oh, I hope that it's okay.
 Yeah, I'm looking to the world.
 So we think it's great.
 So we love that you put this out there.
 What inspired you to write?
 Yeah, now obviously, you know, like you just shared this aspect of what do parents and grandparents
 do.
 But what got you going, okay, I've launched these kids books.
 I mean, you know, put this out there for the big kids.
 What inspired that piece?
 Well, I think what happened with going back to COVID 2020, we had a baby, my husband
 and I, what we ended up losing our child.
 Yeah.
 And thank you.
 And because of that, like this book was already in creation, like, I'm very creative when
 I'm pregnant.
 So it was like, I was coming out of me, like, oh, I should write a book and do all these things
 and, you know, all this.
 And after losing him, it was even more impactful because it was like, okay, like, I am still
 a parent, right?
 And we can, we can be parents without children.
 And we can have children in our lives that you can make an impact on.
 And now we have a beautiful daughter who is six months old.
 But I wanted to relate, I can relate to parents now.
 So I was like, okay, this is,
 hard, right?
 Like, there's stuff in life, it gets busy and wild and all this stuff.
 But how do you really, you know, have an impact and be purposeful with your teachings?
 And my dad was so great at that.
 It's like, oh my gosh, you had four kids and was running a business and all these other
 things.
 And like, really carved out time every Saturday to sit down with our notebook and learn
 about stocks and economy and like accounting.
 You know, these really big topics for a seven year old.
 So, you know, it's so funny because so for me, my mom would sit down with us and she
 had her old checkbooks that she wasn't using.
 You know, we would sit down and we would pay groceries.
 You know, I'm 50, almost 53 now.
 So this is a long time ago.
 You know, we use a checkbook to pay for and so listening to you and what you experienced.
 I mean, I'm so thankful for your dad.
 I love that you put out this book, but praise God, you know, for men who sit down and
 at moms as well and sit down with their kid and actually walk through this process because
 it's so stink and needed.
 And it's so impacted so much of my life being able to be learned that way.
 So I'm excited for how many parents are listening to this going, okay, I've got to take
 this step.
 Even if my kids are older, I've got to take this step.
 So absolutely.
 Yeah.
 So why do you think parents should teach money concepts to their children?
 I mean, it's a softball pitch.
 It should be obvious, but there's so many that don't know it.
 Why do you think they should teach?
 Yeah, well, regardless, if you teach them or don't or have open conversations with your
 kids, they're still going to learn about money.
 Kids are especially toddlers are so smart, like they're the best salespeople in the whole world.
 They understand transactions.
 They understand that, "Oh, if I want this, I need to do this or save this."
 Or, you know, they understand the exchange.
 And that's really all money is.
 It's an exchange for something.
 So they can sexually get that.
 Now, with what you're changing with whether it's a piece of plastic or money, you know,
 an actual cash.
 Because like that, that's where you can step in and help really guide them and lead them and
 create this scenario of like, they're under your roof and they can have these trials and
 errors and failures.
 And, "Oh, my, I spent too much money on that."
 So it's really giving the power to the child.
 And that's what my dad and mom were both really good at.
 It's like, "Here's some money.
 You're going to actually have to like save it and look at it and market down."
 But you're also going to be able to spend it in the way that you want to.
 And you have to earn your money and put it in your bank.
 And so there's a lot of empowerment when you're as a kid able to do it.
 Versus like, "Oh, mom just buys everything.
 You're oak dad buys everything."
 And like, "Okay, there's no conversation about it."
 Like, it just half magically happens.
 Like, I get these things.
 So, gosh, page, I'm sorry.
 But I'm going to have to push back on you here.
 Are you suggesting that we don't allow the world to teach our kids?
 We don't put them out there as adults to go, "Hey, go figure this thing out."
 Is that what you're saying?
 Oh my gosh.
 Yeah, no, I know exactly.
 Well, and it's like, they're going to learn regardless, right?
 So why not you be their teacher, right?
 And really, you know, have the, like, for me, because my fan, my dad was so purposeful
 with, "Okay, I want to be the teacher for my kids."
 Like, I'm going to be the best.
 And vice versa, right?
 The kids are going to be your teacher too.
 I think that's something that's really missed.
 It's not just teachers, student.
 Well, who is the teacher and who's the student?
 I feel like my dad learned so much from us as we learned from him too.
 So it was a fluid, you know, ongoing lessons with the family, which was so beautiful.
 Yeah, I think there's this given receive that happens.
 And I think a lot of parents are so concerned with, do I know what I'm doing, which is why again,
 go learn this stuff, get the book, learn how to do this.
 So that you don't have to try and figure this out.
 You can get expert advice.
 And then it allows you to pay attention to what the kids are teaching you.
 I mean, there is.
 It is so transactional with everything.
 If it's teaching choices and consequences to your kids, or if it's teaching your kids how to
 play ball.
 And whatever it is, I love fellow grand rep, it's person up there.
 So you want my buddy's Brent Van Heren when he started teaching his daughter soccer.
 He taught the he was one of the coaches and they had all these plans together to teach
 these kids soccer.
 And they went out there and they tried to teach them soccer and one of the parents on the
 sidelines was going, if you can forget all of your plans, if you can just get them to
 kick the ball in the right direction, you're going to have a good day.
 That's all they care about.
 And it's like, you're right.
 So the back of it's like, wait a second.
 Okay, these are little girls.
 They don't know.
 And it just being able to allow them to have fun and learn.
 It taught them how to coach.
 And so it was such a powerful piece.
 And so I love that you share that.
 Is there things that some topics that should be avoided when discussing money with kids
 in your book?
 Like the statement, the solution to the problem of teaching children about money is to become
 very intentional about providing a financial education.
 So we'll talk about intentionality with parents.
 But as there's things that they should avoid.
 I would say, depending on how old your kids are, like, everything has to be very age appropriate.
 Right, you're not going to tell an eight-year-old.
 Hi, we have this amount of money, right?
 Like I have millions of dollars, right?
 Like, you know, probably be cautious of the numbers and of the age of appropriateness onto
 the kids.
 But I do think eventually those conversations, the kid might be asked, how much would
 you do you have, right?
 You know, so you kind of got to be prepared a little bit with that answer of it.
 And I would just say age appropriateness.
 I think is the biggest thing.
 And really guiding the kids to that and what's the point, right?
 Why do we do this?
 Why do we have this?
 What does this look like if you have a family business or you're an employer, you're an entrepreneur,
 like all these sort of amazing conversations that can come out of old dad-business or
 mode.
 This is certain, you know, with it.
 So age appropriateness, yeah.
 Yeah, which I love that because, you know, your dad teaching you how to understand stock market
 and stuff like that.
 That's, so what is appropriate?
 The funny thing is like we will teach adults, you know, in business when we're talking through
 business owners or business leaders are asking about, you know, what do I share with my
 team as far as our finances are counting?
 And I'm like, if they cannot digest it, don't share it.
 You don't tell somebody who does, you know, for us, we're like, hey, and again, this is
 a testament to how important your book is.
 We have grown adults that do not understand business finances 101.
 Hey guys, you have to make this amount of money, but there's all these expenses that come
 out of running a business and that gets us to the bottom line.
 I mean, it is incredible the number of adults that don't get that.
 So, you know, we have a lot of business owners that are like, what do I share with my
 team and it's like, well, if they can't understand payroll, if they can't understand brick
 and mortar, you know, what you're paying, if they can't understand, then don't share that stuff,
 they can't digest it.
 Right.
 Exactly.
 I think that's so important if, you know, if your kids are at the edge, if they can't digest
 that you, you know, what millions of dollars means or, you know, we're $100,000 in debt,
 then probably don't share that part.
 Exactly.
 Exactly.
 Now it's like an older, you know, and you talk about debt and you have, you kind of have
 those opening conversations when they're probably like in their teenage years, right?
 Before they go to college, if they're going to be taking on student loans, right?
 So, having those open, like, it's kind of like, you want to just think about, and again,
 your kids are going to ask you questions too.
 So it's like, okay, well, mom has, you know, $200,000 in student loans and that's debt.
 And I took that on to have my education now to have the job that I have and now I'm
 paying them off.
 So we got to think about, okay, here, your options.
 You want to go to community college.
 You want to go to trade school.
 Do you want to go to this school?
 Like, you're going to have to take on this IOU.
 What is that?
 You know, so there's all this lead up to it.
 But kids are smart, right?
 Like, so age appropriateness is like, you know, you don't always have to not tell them things,
 but also helping them learn.
 I think what you said is amazing about these adults that don't know anything about it.
 They don't know about payroll, teach them about payroll, right?
 And then you can have that conversation, okay, well, what is that?
 Oh, oh, that stuff gets taken out.
 And this is how operates and all that.
 So same with kids, right?
 Like, you make money, you know, you spend money and like leftovers, what we're saving, you know,
 kind of all these things that you can have as they're doing it with you.
 Yeah, so good.
 So good.
 All right.
 So, this is what we're going to talk about.
 What it's like to be intentional as a parent teaching the kids about mine.
 It's free.
 Freedom.
 It's so powerful.
 I don't rejuvenate and almost renewed.
 I just felt so welcomed and loved and accepted for who I am and not an ounce of judgment.
 So I was very comfortable there.
 That had a really big impact on me.
 It's going to be worth it.
 It's going to be hard.
 But it's going to be even better on the other side.
 For me, it was just very refreshing.
 And I want to say life, give me, and really was.
 You know, I would go to the next level of life again and probably again and probably again.
 Because it's so powerful.
 If you want to experience the same kind of life transformation, the same kind of self-awareness
 and freedom that they have, or maybe you're just curious what the process would look
 like for you, then head on over to ChrissaCurdo.com/nextlevellife.
 Okay.
 So as we go into intentionality, another, I'm just so excited about all this.
 I'm just super giddy.
 You know, we teach choices and consequences all the time.
 If you have bad choices, you get bad consequences.
 If you have good choices, you get good consequences.
 And one of the things we so want people, parents to understand or business owners, business
 leaders, adults, doesn't matter, is that when you hold people accountable to choices and
 consequences, you create decision making.
 When I know that if I talked back to mommy or daddy and I got in trouble and that my choice
 was to talk back to them and the consequence that came with it was my choice, I realized I don't
 like it.
 When I think my consequence is their choice and it's their fault, well then I don't have
 a hard time talking back.
 So I love when you were talking about right before the break.
 Hey, I'm mom and dad.
 I've got $200,000 worth of debt for my schooling because I chose to go this route.
 Let's talk about maybe better choices free.
 Maybe community college.
 Maybe you know, as you're mentioning, hey, let's think through, here's choices.
 Look at my consequences and this is again, age appropriate.
 Let me share my consequences so you get it.
 And then make quality choices.
 So let's dive into the intentionality part, which is just sorely lacking in our culture today.
 So you talk about parents being intentional about their approach to teaching their children,
 especially where themes like finances are concerned.
 What's holding parents back when it comes to having a plan or strategy with their kids?
 Oh, I think that they just don't know, right, with the choices and the consequences.
 They don't know how to set it up for young kids or middle school or teenagers.
 Obviously, consequences with teenagers is very easy to remember when you were a teenager,
 right, like that's really easy to recall.
 Oh, and my sister did that and I didn't do that, right?
 You know, it's really easy to remember that.
 And I think that this is actually a great point.
 This is the beginning of my book.
 This is all about our family's sayings and our family laws, which are all about consequences.
 And as a young kid, if I hit my sister or my sister and I were having a fight, we would
 have something called the repenting bench.
 We both went.
 We were both at fault.
 And then we both had to come to a parent and say, you're a side of the story.
 And then whoever was like, you know, really, really got the blame for it.
 It was had apologize and promsiver to do it again.
 Well, she did this in a little bit.
 And so there it was really great with this.
 The repenting bench that regardless if you started it, you were involved.
 And so you had your your choice to get involved and add to the chaos, had consequences.
 You're other repenting meant with her.
 And so with that entailed a really easy segue to money because it's the same thing, right?
 Your choice to do this, your choice to spend that, your choice to save this, your choice to
 not, right?
 And also with siblings, I have three younger siblings.
 It was really easy to compare.
 Notes, right?
 So there's a little competition that was involved in a good way.
 Just like, oh, well, I spent money on this and she didn't.
 Now she has, you know, more in her bank.
 And oh, maybe I should spend more, please, more much.
 You know, there's that there is, there is a lot of that like out loud conversation or just
 internal thinking of like, again, choices and consequences.
 And we had family laws, and this is the second chapter of the book, because to help set
 that up for family.
 So you don't have to, I say to every family.
 You don't have to do it the same.
 This is just how we did it.
 And you can take what you want from it.
 But it's nice to, for the children to know that if you do this, this is what's going to happen.
 There's clearness and there's empowerment with that too.
 It's like, oh, yeah, I am, okay, if I hit my sister, I'm going to go to their repenting
 venture.
 If I do this, I'm going to go to the calm couch.
 We had calm couch or repenting.
 So there were structures that were that you knew as a, as a kid of like, oh, yeah, okay,
 this is what's going to happen.
 Cause it's what's coming.
 Oh, my gosh.
 It's so good.
 So if you ask the average person, what does a child need most?
 Most people are going to say love.
 Right.
 We disagree with that.
 I disagree with that too.
 Yeah, good.
 The number one thing they need is consistency.
 If a child can understand how to anticipate you, then it helps them in, again, their decision
 making process.
 But it helps them to understand, I know this about mom or dad, I feel peaceful, even to the
 extent of the, you know, going to the bench, right?
 Because you know what's going to happen.
 I know what's going to happen.
 I think so tying that together with what you just said, the reason why so many people just
 don't have a plan.
 They don't have a good structure.
 They don't have a good system.
 And so unfortunately, you know, why are we so surprised that so many people don't know how
 to have other finances and they're, they're gaining their learning from, you know, marketing
 and, you know, companies that want to use everybody, their money.
 So active versus responding to it.
 So like, yeah, yeah, it's like, well, I don't have a plan.
 So I'm not going to do anything about it.
 And I hope that they're going to do better than I did.
 Well, there's your plan.
 You do have a plan.
 That's a plan.
 Yeah.
 Thank you.
 It's not going to work out very well.
 But talk about that structure that Saturday, structure kind of dig into that and kind of help
 us to see, I know, you're going to go, you know, wait further in this in the book and
 everything.
 There's a lot of information on that.
 I give us a little bit of just a concept of what that structure looks like.
 Totally.
 And my dad, my joke is that if he wasn't a great business owner, he would have made an amazing
 military officer because my dad was all about routines and structure and systems.
 Like, who?
 So every Saturday, we would wake up and the first thing we were doing is like cleaning the
 house.
 It's like we had our room.
 We had to pick up our room and a zone a designated area.
 So I would have like the living room and that cloth, the pillows and fold the blankets and
 put everything away.
 And then he would inspect.
 Nice.
 Nature.
 We did it.
 What enough?
 And we would get like a report on it.
 And we would march, you know, then we go look at my what my sister did.
 And so after we did that, then he was like, okay, now the whole, the spaces clear,
 were able to sit down so we'd go grab our notebooks.
 We would have the pen.
 We would have the notebook and we would sit normally just like a table.
 And he would have some sort of lesson activity.
 My dad was very hands on.
 He loved to bring in like jelly beans or like gold coins or there would be something interactive.
 And I grew up on a story.
 So we're all about like the test too.
 And then we, and he keep it very simple.
 So we would date like the lesson.
 We would say the title of the lesson and then it would be like a couple points and it'd be
 like right it down and he'd make us right it down and we'd do the lesson.
 And I still have my notebook.
 It's crazy to like look at like what?
 Oh, five.
 It was just so amazing.
 And then after we would talk, and it'd only be about 20 to 30 minutes.
 It would not, it would not be a long lesson.
 And sometimes you'd repeat the lessons, right?
 So let's say we're talking about stocks.
 We would be memorizing the ton stocks that we own and then we learned about the stock price.
 I mean, they would be like exponentially added on versus just one and done.
 Okay, we talked about this.
 Got it?
 Great.
 Like no, 12 year olds like what's that?
 Like I don't, I don't, I don't get what pee or dividend means.
 So yeah, and then afterwards we do a big family brainstorm and then we'd have the rest of the day
 to figure out what we were going to do whether it was going to the bookstore or movie or
 play outside.
 But that was my every Saturday consistently.
 So yeah, I mean, I'm just, I would love to meet your dad.
 I mean, you need to meet my dad.
 You need to be a dad.
 So phenomenal.
 And the thing I love is you're going through all of that is like you said, it's not a one and
 done.
 He, this was a long term plan for your dad.
 This is a, no, this is life.
 I'm going to teach you.
 I'm going to teach you life.
 I'm going to teach you how to handle this.
 And I just is so phenomenal.
 And from a teacher, that's what I love.
 I love to see that I love to hear that.
 It is something that appears to be a reward for you girls.
 Oh, absolutely absolutely.
 Absolutely.
 Yeah, looking back, looking back, it's, it's such a reward because it, it's self, he gave
 a self confidence.
 He gave us the route that we can do anything.
 We can do it.
 We can have hard conversations.
 We can fire people.
 We can sit in a room with an accountant and ask really big questions.
 How do I save money with that?
 How do I do that?
 Right off.
 And not feel intimidated to approach these topics that a lot of adults feel intimidated approach
 because like where do I start?
 I don't know.
 So he gave us like this confidence within our self.
 You can do it.
 And you're going to be on these journey with me.
 We would sit in these professional service meetings with him.
 Have no idea.
 It was very intimidating.
 We'd have to dress up.
 All these things than a debrief as afterwards.
 But because I did that when I was 12 with my sister, my sister's running the family business
 now.
 And I have my own company.
 Because we've done this so many times.
 It's just so natural.
 It's not something that you have to go out and learn.
 It's something that it's natural.
 It's part of you.
 I mean, obviously, there's an incredible amount to learn as you go forward with running the
 business, correctly.
 But my gosh, stepping in with confidence into running a business is just a world of difference.
 And again, we're talking about finances.
 But I mean, really, I'm sure it didn't end with finances.
 I'm sure there's other things that were part of this.
 And just even the thought of, you know, I love while you're creating a baby, your creativity
 comes up.
 I just, you know, how much of that was just so freely fostered because of this situation.
 Yeah.
 It was right.
 Exactly.
 You know, it was so innate.
 Again, and this was my upbringing.
 And so it's like, doesn't everybody do this?
 Like, I'm surprised I was like, wait, you didn't have that?
 Like, you didn't have a gym.
 I'm classy.
 You didn't have any class.
 And yeah, it was just reflecting back, you know, now on it is just where I'm so appreciative
 and so grateful.
 And I wanted to share this with other families, too, of like, listen, this doesn't have
 to, it can feel tedious and overwhelming.
 Because I have a lot in the book, right?
 Like, this is a lot.
 But just take the one thing that works for you and the best thing that you can give your kids
 is consistency and structure.
 And if you can do that from an early age, they know what's coming.
 And then you can add to that.
 And it's just, it's so cool.
 And I'm sure my dad has tons of stories, too, of like, what we asked.
 And I think my sister won't have an ass.
 And like, we'll do, we have enough money.
 You know, like, you're really worried that we didn't have enough.
 So those are the fun.
 Well, that's why I'm teaching you guys this because child labor starts in a week.
 Exactly.
 You're ready, you're 14.
 Like, got to go find job.
 Like, yeah.
 No, amazing.
 So yeah, it was great.
 You know, it's awesome to think.
 I don't, I don't know if you've ever read CS Lewis's screw temperatures.
 But there's a fantastic part in screw tape letters where screw tape is.
 So just quick concept folks.
 This is one of the negative book that he wrote from a demon writing to his nephew who's an
 up and coming demon.
 He was talking about how, you know, he's got, so you don't get the letters from the
 nephew.
 You only get their letters back to.
 And so he's writing to him and he's saying, you allowed him to read a book and enjoy it.
 No, no, no, no.
 You cannot do that.
 You have got to make that a chore.
 Because you're talking about this with your dad.
 There's no chore to this.
 This is a, you know, I'm just hearing this going, oh my gosh, it wasn't like, got to teach
 the kids finances.
 It's another Saturday.
 Right.
 Right.
 Man, I mean, there's no way he makes it through all of this if this is a chore.
 Exactly.
 And I think that's such a huge component I have never spoken about.
 Is that this was fun for my dad.
 This was, and of course, he'd have like, I'm sure some ideas of the lesson of the day.
 But let's say because he was a business owner, he was having an issue or, you know, something
 that was going on in the moment about customer service, right?
 We would have a lesson around customer service because it was like our life.
 And so as he was experiencing these things, or let's say you know, fire somebody, you
 talk about hiring people, right?
 They're in great people.
 And so there was, you know, flexibility within this and he had really fun teaching us kids about
 it and being a part of his world.
 Because that's what we cared while we won't care about.
 It's just, what are you doing?
 We want to be a part of it.
 And he enjoyed it.
 So we enjoyed it.
 Yeah, I love it.
 I love it.
 I love it.
 What do you see different?
 Again, another great softball pitch, here you go.
 What do you see different in what you experienced with your dad compared to what we see in
 our culture today?
 This process.
 I would say commitment, commitment, he wanted, he knew that his kids were his legacy, not
 his business.
 And that's all he cared about.
 He's like, who cares if the business goes up in flames?
 Like, what I am teaching my kids and the success of my children for what they want to be successful
 in, I did my job.
 Like, that's like the best compliment he can get is, you know, hearing great things about
 his kids.
 And so commitment to us.
 And really the commitment from my family, like, going down the ranks, because I can't
 wait to do this with my daughter, what she's older, like, she's only six months now, but like,
 oh, mom's glass, here we go.
 Like, nine months, can you hold a pencil?
 Not yet, okay.
 It's up to 10 months.
 Let's try it.
 I mean, you have to be.
 You have got to be so stoked to get started.
 And there's funny thing, this is the question that's in the back of my mind.
 Yeah.
 What would you do different?
 Like, I know you so much of what your dad did was great.
 But is there something you're like, you know, I want to do this differently?
 Well, I'm not as military as my father was.
 So I think there will be a little more flexibility in the within the structure.
 And my father is not the best musician.
 And I love to sing.
 Like, I will incorporate a lot more song and like, movement into these lessons, because I love
 to dance and I love to sing.
 So he is monotone, he can't sing it.
 So like, that didn't happen.
 But I would say, you know, just incorporating my personality into it.
 Like, I'm different than my father.
 And now he had a great structure.
 And I can use that.
 But I think that I'll use my person, whatever works for me, right?
 And making sure that I have fun with it too.
 So that's so important for everybody to hear.
 That's so important.
 The basis of this thing is get that structure.
 And when we come back after this break, I want to hit that.
 But being able to take a look at who you, I'm not going to be the singer.
 My wife is.
 And she can do stuff and make up stuff on the fly and do that.
 And that's great.
 But that's not going to be me either.
 I'm not regimented like that.
 But I'm just like, you don't want me singing.
 So let me do this over here.
 Let me play, yeah, I'll play some drums.
 There you go.
 So when we come back, we're going to hit that family structure in those family roles.
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one
 issue when it comes to business when it comes to family when it comes to friendships is having
 a lack of high quality communication to make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect
 of your life.
 And all starts with having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand
 the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with whether it be
 at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to Chrissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and
 personality profiles for your team two day.
 Get it for your family members.
 Today, as you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to Chrissacrittle.com/store2day.
 Alright folks, we are back and we are talking about developing a structured set of family
 laws so that you prepare your children to become financially dependent as they get older.
 Give us just some hints.
 I know again, a lot more of this is in the book.
 Folks, you got to get this book.
 We are going to talk about how to get that in just a bit.
 Give us just some hints on how to get that structured.
 Yeah, so there is a lot of different activities you can do.
 And I think the biggest thing is coming up with what works for your family.
 What depends on what stage of your family that you are in to, right?
 What are your family values?
 What do you value?
 Bringing words and conversation to those and saying those out loud.
 We had family sayings.
 It could also be family mantras and they looked like this.
 I can do it.
 Do it right.
 Do your best and treat other people.
 How they want to be treated.
 Nice.
 That is the golden rule.
 And my siblings can all recite those.
 So giving that self empowerment to the kids and then building itself and then you are well.
 Then learning about wealth and because you are what you spend your money on tells the story
 about you, what you value.
 Like if you like experiences, you are going to buy experiences.
 If you like things, you are going to buy things.
 And that kind of tells what you place value on.
 And so earning money, saving money, spending money is how our family did it.
 And so teaching kids how to earn money.
 That is hard.
 They were lost.
 You know, now really earning money.
 So how do you create something where they can wash the car and it is $10 or wash the dog.
 And do these kind of bigger chores where they can earn money.
 And then also put in, "Okay, if you are 7 years old, you can earn $7."
 You know, create this fictitious, but not really earning money.
 And then saving your money.
 We tallied it every Saturday.
 We did a family bank.
 We had a registrar, subtracted out.
 If we took it to spend it, we added it in.
 Quarterly we would get 10% in the cornout at national.
 Nice.
 Nice.
 Everyone's like, "How can I invest in that bank today?"
 10%.
 10% are you kidding me?
 I get like, of one penny on the money.
 That's like, so funny.
 And so learning about that.
 Oh, saving your, there's a centred saving your money.
 And then spending your money, allowing the kids to have the ability to take out money and to use it
 and to spend it on whatever they want to.
 My sister loved candy.
 She always wanted to spend money on candy.
 She had a candy drawer.
 It was like, "Okay, that's too much."
 But like, write your teeth.
 But that's what she loved.
 And now she's a huge foodie.
 And also it's like, "I'm sure."
 Oh, sure.
 She went to a food and whatnot.
 Again, what you place your value on what you spend your money on.
 So things like that.
 And just coming up with simple structure, easy, consistency.
 Daily, weekly, monthly you're doing something around it.
 Daily, we'd say our family's saying, "Weekly, we would do the family bank," or
 an earned-save spend.
 And monthly, there'd kind of be things, whatever my parents felt like for that year that
 they were going to do with us.
 Wow, my gosh.
 I love it.
 I'm sure statute of limitations have worn out.
 So you and I can't get in trouble.
 But I'm sure you girls like me worked.
 Illegally early on because it was important.
 I think it's ridiculous.
 For all of these parents that I like, "Oh, I don't want my kid to work while they're in
 school.
 I want them to have their summers."
 And I'm like, "Do you know what your child is going to look like when they get the
 college or when it's terrible?"
 Well, we were a bus in there.
 Yeah, we were a bus in there, but I think I was legally paid at 14 going on from there,
 you know, before that is still.
 But I think one of the most powerful things that you just shared that I love is that your
 dad focused on building you as an individual first, as a human being.
 It's not about just teaching finances because I hope you're having your finances well
 in the future.
 I love that the first focus was who are you?
 Yes.
 What are you supposed to be like?
 And so I wondered, you guys, you know, as adults ever come back at Thanksgiving and like,
 quote the family monsters or family laws like, sit down at the table and go through.
 Yeah, we totally can.
 We totally can.
 And like us, so I have three, three younger siblings and so yeah, so the four of us, we
 do like an annual sibling trip, which is really fun.
 And we always laugh, like, you know, it's just fun things about our upbringing and mom and dad,
 and you know, all that.
 Yeah, we can.
 If you called anyone of my siblings, I'm be like, okay, give me the whole thing.
 They will be like, "Brr."
 You know, you guys need to sit down with your dad, like, and do like a serious meeting and
 said, you know, give him a no-pad and a pen say dad, we're going to discuss how you're
 going to distribute your wealth to us children.
 So we're going to teach you.
 We should.
 That's a great idea.
 This is how we wanted to look dad.
 I'm going to call family maybe dad and you're not in charge of it.
 So here's your no-pad.
 Not to call out any of your friends or people that you know well, but there's definitely
 a difference that you see in you and the people you know that are your age.
 What is the difference?
 Like, what are some of the things that are just obvious things?
 Oh, um.
 Especially in the area of finances.
 Yeah, I would just say the maturity with it and the awareness of like, what is this?
 And I think a lot of the people that are my age and if we ever talk about money or
 finances, it's kind of like, what's that?
 Or like, what's that thing?
 But then they don't want to ask any more questions about it.
 It's like, no, no, it's okay.
 Like, let's have these open, I'm all for it.
 Or like, let's have.
 And even if I'm like, oh, I don't know what that is.
 Let's go find that out or like, let's ask somebody, you know, it's I think that there's
 a lot more, there's a hesitancy to have these conversations with everyone, right?
 Like not just their accountent or financial advisor or banker or whoever.
 It's like, even with your peers, it's kind of like, okay, that's like, you don't really
 want to talk about that.
 Okay.
 Yeah, I think it's so funny because again, that's something that as a teacher, you know,
 you're a teacher, this is stuff, the self confidence that you were given to be able to teach
 this stuff and not have a problem gaining quality perspective and asking questions.
 There's so many people that come from that place where they don't have that teacher in their
 life that allowed them to be okay with going, I don't actually know this.
 I don't know what that word means.
 I don't know what this process is that you're talking about.
 Yeah.
 So when you have that and this is yet again, point 97 of why you need to teach this to your
 kids, being able to ask questions and not be afraid is why I'm able to get to so much
 information in my life.
 I'm not worried about people, you know, judging me or I don't care if I don't know the answer
 I don't know the answer, right?
 I think it's just that's what it is.
 And I think it's so difficult when you're leading somebody and that you can tell they're afraid
 to ask and you're like, or, you know, the fear being afraid to ask really sucks or that
 they don't know what to ask.
 Like they're like legitimately, I want to ask you something.
 I don't even know what to ask right now.
 It's like, oh, all right, let me just keep teaching for another 15 minutes and say if I
 pull something out.
 Exactly.
 Like let me just get hold of all the viruses.
 Yeah, exactly.
 Oh, so again, just fantastic for parents, you know, and it doesn't, we're not just talking
 about little ones.
 My gosh, if you got it's about to head out the door.
 Yeah.
 Late teens, let's make sure that we're getting this type of information.
 All right, so question, let's talk about some personal goals such as saving up to buy something
 that you want, which that message is not existant nowadays.
 You know, people so believe that you can't possibly save up for something that you have to
 go into debt for everything.
 How important is that for children to have?
 And if so, how can parents teach this to their kids?
 Oh, my gosh.
 This is like, it's funny.
 I just had this conversation with my mom last week.
 We were visiting them and she goes, the best way that I would tell your brother, like, oh,
 if he, you know, if he really wanted a rabbit, she said when he was younger, like, really,
 she's like, we did not want a rabbit.
 Like, so she's like the best way to get your brother to not do anything was someone that he
 has to pay his own money for it.
 You know, he had a fit.
 And now he was like 10.
 It's funny.
 It had to come out of his bank.
 It all is just like, any of you like, nope, don't on the rabbit.
 Like, she is.
 Isn't that crazy?
 I knew how to motivate your brother with like, oh, you have to pay for this.
 He's like, nope, not paying for it.
 Like, he is a great savor.
 It's like, nope, not worth it.
 Like, I want to pay my own money.
 I'm going to change the value of the thing.
 If I don't have to pay for it, of course, I want to rabbit.
 Exactly.
 Like, oh, and then I have to pay for it and have to clean its poop.
 And I have to do all these and I'm buying, you know, the, the, the, hey, that goes underneath
 it and the cage.
 I'm going to let all, etc.
 Yeah, she's like, he, she asked me for a solid year about a rabbit and then I was like, okay,
 fine, you can pay for all the expenses.
 Then she's like, he dropped that very quickly.
 So, it's like different, different motivators, you know, for it.
 But yes, and I love that my parents did that with us.
 It's like, no, you, oh, you want it.
 You can pay for it because there's a different energy exchange when you have to pay for it.
 Or you had to do it.
 There's value to that.
 There's, oh, I earned this money.
 It's my heart earned money or I saved like I sacrificed to save for this thing.
 And so it's so much richer because of that.
 Yeah, again, another aspect of teaching decision making where so many parents look back on
 their kids lives.
 And again, we, you know, we've talked a lot about this in next level of life.
 And they look back and parents like, oh, I wish, I wish they knew this or I wish, you know,
 my kid understood this and it's like, that's part of that parenting plot.
 You got to be intentional.
 If you will just get in there and teach these things and help them to understand this, then they
 will have that decision making when they're older.
 So good.
 And let them do it.
 Let them touch it, right?
 Let them experience it.
 Let them do it.
 And I think that's something that like parents, my age now are like, oh, we'll just handle everything.
 Right?
 Like, we'll handle them.
 They don't need to do it.
 It's like, no, do it opposite.
 Like let them give them and say, go do it, right?
 Like their cute little humans are very capable.
 Like they're very capable.
 Yeah, otherwise you'd get an entitled kid.
 And this is another thing that, you know, when you talk to the older generations, they're so
 frustrated with entitlement and everything.
 And I'm one of the people who goes, hey, our fault people.
 Right.
 Whatever, whatever we'll, when we take things away from the child, I was working again,
 you know, 12 years old, I'm out there under the table making money because it was allowed,
 you know, when you're, and I have a phenomenal work ethic, right?
 And it's just, it's amazing.
 Does you understand that and you understand it so young, too?
 Exactly.
 So if you allow your kids the opportunity to get in and dig in and experience it, and I love what
 you keep saying to feel it, right?
 If you, if they can feel it, if they can touch it, if they can experience it that way, then
 they will, it creates decision making.
 When you, when you convince yourself that by doing it for them is better, then you don't
 realize how much hurt you're putting your child in because they're going to hurt later
 on a life.
 And this brings me to a question.
 I'd love to know, because I don't know about your husband.
 Was he raised with this or how, like, what is it like?
 You guys know have a child.
 Where's he at all of this?
 Comptu, like, was he raised this way?
 Is he like learning?
 Is he going to, is he going to, is he going to, is he going to, is he going to, is he going
 to come to the table with a notebook and a fan?
 Right.
 Yeah.
 No, definitely very different than me in terms of upbringing.
 Of course.
 I feel like my family is very unique in the sense of, like, we talked about it and we did
 it.
 I mean, now his parents did make him work.
 Like he, I think his first job was laying side for a whole summer.
 And this is when he was like, he came back and I was like, I think I'm going to go to college.
 Like, I don't want to work outside.
 Like, I think I'm going to sit in front of a computer.
 That's on's great.
 So, Kate, we laugh about, you know, as we share those experiences together.
 And yeah, it's been really fun, you know, being married and like talking about these things
 with him because he has a different perspective and that's very normal when you get married.
 You know, you bring these different values and these different upbringing to the relationship.
 But in general, I feel like he is on board with what I do.
 I mean, he gets, he gets it.
 He's like, it's awesome.
 You know, what you did and how you're doing it and everything.
 And, but yeah, it's fun having those conversations with him.
 So I think it'll be so interesting to see, you know, when you start teaching and training,
 I wonder if he's going to be on the sidelines going, hey, yeah, let me throw a thought, you know,
 you wanted to be a part of that process because I mean, it really does.
 I think when you have even if it's just one parent that is intentionally enjoying and loving,
 training their child, it really inspires the other parent to get involved, you know,
 and just be a part and change the way that they do things as well.
 So, normally in an interview, I asked this question for many, many years, what would you go
 back and tell a younger version of you, but I feel like you're telling, we've got that answer,
 but is there anything you will tell a younger version of you differently?
 I don't know, because I think that, you know, if I went back, okay, so I have gotten this
 question before.
 So if I would go back and like tell my 20 year old self, do things sooner, like do it sooner.
 That's always when I, that's always when I go back to because it's like, oh, it's
 so I wish I did that sooner, right? Like just do it.
 That's the good.
 Do things sooner.
 That's kind of what I've told many years ago.
 Well, what's on the horizon for you? What's up next?
 Mom's class, 2.0.
 Oh, it's pretty.
 Yeah.
 I, you know, do a bunch of podcasts.
 I am spending a lot of quality time with my daughter.
 She's getting bigger, which is so crazy.
 And working with a bunch of, you know, families, family businesses, helping them learn about
 yourself and your wealth.
 Yeah, that's so good.
 So good.
 All right.
 So let's talk about how people can get involved.
 The average parent out there right now listening if they go to spend then.com, which is where
 all your information is.
 But what do you suggest? How do you suggest they get involved? Where do they start? What do they do?
 So buy all my books.
 That's exactly definitely.
 Start there by all my books.
 And then I would say if they read my dad's class, read the financial children's books to your
 kids, have those conversations.
 You can do it when they're older, too.
 Right? You can say have those conversations teens, even in their 20s.
 And then the one chapter, if you're going to do one thing, would be chapter five in dad's
 class, which is the family bank.
 Do it.
 It's so great.
 It gives the kids the power.
 So do the family bank.
 Yep, absolutely.
 Such good stuff, page.
 How else can people get more of you?
 Where do they follow you social media?
 Yep.
 Miss spend then on Facebook, spend then on Instagram, I'm on LinkedIn, page, corner it,
 I'm doing this.
 My new name.
 All the good stuff, page.spend then.com.
 There you go.
 Well, thank you so much for joining us.
 This is so good.
 Such fun stuff.
 Folks, you've got to get all of these books.
 And you got to get this going.
 And again, don't think that your kids are too old.
 I mean, crud, even if they're, if they're gone and you can still sit down and have some
 influence on teaching them about finances, it's never too late to start.
 But definitely, let's get those young ones going, get them, learning, get them, mold their
 decision making.
 You know, help them to make right decisions.
 So much good information in this interview.
 You know, about, no, I don't want to buy that rabbit, right?
 Or no, I do want to buy more candy, whatever it is.
 Help them to help them make those decisions.
 So, page, thank you so much for joining me.
 I really appreciate it.
 Thank you, Chris.
 Such a pleasure.
 Oh, so good.
 So good.
 Well, folks, that's all the time we have for today.
 As always, we hope this has helped you in benefit of you.
 We want you to take this information.
 Change your leadership.
 Change your business.
 Change your life.
 Change your kids life.
 Enjoy this on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]