 negativity can easily spiral out of control.
 It's contagious and difficult to contain once it's gone viral.
 How do you stop it before that?
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 We are back at it again answering the questions that you have about the life and business
 that you really want.
 This time around we've got another how to episode for you.
 Today we're talking about gossip.
 I don't talk rumors, negativity, backbiting and strife and we've all seen it and we all know
 it's like a virus that infects people's minds and hearts.
 Most of us have been on both sides of this equation.
 Either spreading it or receiving it or both.
 We do have to take responsibility for what we've done.
 It's easy for us to point out the gossip that we see in people and not recognize the gossip
 that's in us.
 So in a general sense gossip is just idle talk and speculation, but it quickly spirals out of control.
 Now here's a dictionary definition of it.
 Casual or unconstrained conversation and reports about other people.
 Typically involving details that are not confirmed as being true.
 So if you look at it from a dictionary definition, we understand the concept of people
 talking, but how many times is that gossip not even confirmed as something that's true?
 So you can see the intent come to light in that last phrase, typically unconfirmed and not
 true.
 Now the Bible has a lot to say about gossip and the bottom line is this.
 The Bible outright prohibits gossip.
 The Hebrew word translated gossip in the Old Testament is defined as one who reveals secrets.
 One who goes about as a tale bear or scandal manga.
 Again, notice the intention here.
 Someone has privileged information about someone else or a situation.
 They reveal that information to people who have no business knowing it.
 So they tell secrets and hopes of creating scandals.
 Why would somebody do that?
 Well there's a ton of reasons why.
 They're all kinds of root system issues going on here.
 I have spiked to hurt someone or defamed someone else to paint themselves in a better light or
 position or to feel better about their own lives or circumstances.
 But at the end of the day, it's always always always selfish.
 It's always self-centered.
 It's always about you.
 Believe or not.
 gossip has never about somebody else.
 It's about hurting somebody else for your reasons.
 Right?
 It's always focused on you.
 And notice what the Bible says about the consequence of gossip.
 A perverse man stirs up dissension and gossip separates close friends.
 That's Proverbs 1628.
 So two things we see there is dissension and separation.
 None of that's good.
 None of that's a blessing.
 None of that is worth messing up lives for.
 And yet it happens all the time.
 Forbes 11, 12th to 13 says a man who lacks judgment derides his neighbor.
 But a man of understanding holds his tongue gossip betrays confidence, but a trustworthy man
 keeps a secret.
 So for more on the trust issues or aspects go to episode 5, 16 for more of that.
 Proverbs 21, 23.
 Watch your tongue and keep your mouth shut and you will stay out of trouble.
 So what do we see gossip creates trouble and holding your tongue prevents it?
 So that's a great abination for us, but what do we do when we find that in our businesses
 or in our homes?
 To help us wrestle with this problem today, I've asked our men in Sicily Brian to jump back
 in the virtual studio with me.
 So bonjourno Brian, I forget to roll out.
 What a sad.
 It's a little late.
 What a sad.
 That's right.
 Where you are.
 I don't know how I'm going to help wrestle with this.
 I've got just as many questions this time around, but I'll start off with this quote because
 I love quotes.
 It's not technically gossip if you start your sentence with quote.
 I'm really concerned about so and so and name the person you're gossiping about.
 That's all I just.
 Scurt the issue right there.
 We used to call that Christian gossip.
 Hey y'all.
 Hey for Frank, you know he started doing cocaine again.
 So y'all pray for him.
 Oh my gosh.
 But yeah, I mean just like you had mentioned the trust episode, the how to episode.
 There's so many core perspectives.
 There's so many core issues going on here, worth just the culture and our business, the culture
 and our home root system issues surface.
 Like on and on and on, man and it can spiral out of control quick.
 Wow.
 Yeah, absolutely.
 I love, you know, we both love quotes.
 I love this old story.
 A guy went and gossiped and then came to his rabbi and he says to his rabbi, "Hey, I
 gossip.
 I know it was bad.
 I know that was terrible.
 What do I do about it?"
 And then the rabbi says, "No problem."
 You got a, a feather pillow at home.
 Yeah, bring that on over here.
 He's like, "That's it?
 He's like, "Yep, no problem."
 Great.
 Okay.
 So he goes home, grabs his pillow, comes on back to the rabbi goes, "Here you go."
 And the rabbi takes the pillow and rips it open and it happened to be a windy day and
 feathers go everywhere.
 And he goes, "Okay, now go get all those feathers and put them back in this pillow."
 And the guy says, "That's impossible.
 There's no possible way I could do that."
 And he goes, "That's right."
 Because that's the same with gossip.
 What you've unleashed cannot be put back, understand what you've done.
 And I think that's so profound to recognize, you know, we think we're just saying something
 and we don't recognize just how painful and how far reaching it is.
 Yeah, yeah.
 And again, just like the trust episode, this is both in the home and this kind of
 negativity, the backbiting, the strife, the contention, all of that, just like in the office.
 And so we're going to do our best after the break to look at both sides of this and try
 to be helpful if we can, definitely such a huge issue.
 That's right.
 All right.
 All of this, all these questions on what do we do about gossip or coming up right after this?
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one
 issue when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships,
 is having a lack of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life, it all starts
 with having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand
 the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with, whether it be
 at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to Chrissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and
 personality profiles for your team two day.
 Get it for your family members.
 Today, as you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 But a Chrissacrittle.com/store2day.
 All right, we are back and Brian, if I understand, you have another little test for us.
 It's a litmus test.
 A litmus test.
 Oh gosh, okay, so let's see if we can find ourselves somewhere on this spectrum.
 The idea here is to see where we're popping positive on the gossip spectrum.
 And these are a couple things as we go through.
 Try not to think about just about somebody else.
 Think about yourself because that's where our minds typically go.
 Oh yeah, that's so and so.
 Oh, I know exactly who that is.
 All right, so here's the first.
 One does embarrassing someone else help to numb a wound in your own heart.
 Hmm.
 It's so good.
 Let that sink in a little bit.
 Do you feel a rush?
 Do you get a buzz from sharing something secretive about someone else?
 Do you feel the need to get even?
 Or you mentioned a second ago, one up the person you're talking about.
 Does it make you feel better or superior to the person that you are spreading these things about?
 And the last one does it make you feel closer to or more intimate with the person that you're talking to.
 Well, there's a lot of motives right there.
 That's the whole show right there.
 That's literally.
 What do you think?
 Thanks guys.
 We appreciate you joining us today.
 That's the show.
 That's a great let me test and let me throw with that last one.
 You know, do you feel more intimate or close to the person you're got to speak to the old saying?
 If a person who's willing to gossip to your face is willing to gossip about you behind you.
 Right.
 So that is super important to understand.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 It's going to happen if somebody's willing to gossip to you.
 And if you're the person gossiping.
 Understand, you're not only are you willing to do this to the person that you think you're getting closer to, but you are going to probably gossip about that person.
 Sometimes.
 Yeah.
 Well, and I'll give a quote as well because I, you know, if Joel is listening and he should be.
 He is.
 He is.
 I just have to mention that I was in the military.
 I don't think he was.
 And so I just wanted to put that out there, but there's an old saying in the military that that loose lips sync ships say that five times fast well.
 The idea is that if you're saying there's but a battle forever between you.
 It's all in our free years.
 There's got this battle between you were in the Navy and he was civilian air force.
 So I just.
 This whole area.
 Well, it happens to be on the gossip episode.
 I'm going to make sure that everything I say is true on this. Okay, but I don't know.
 The positive the next time Joel's on the show, there's going to be a dig somehow.
 Some way.
 We got to have another three rules episode just so we can see that.
 All right.
 There you go.
 Yeah, that you you've all heard that expression loose lips sync ships and, you know, if you're busy spreading negativity,
 you're creating a subversive subculture that is going to cloud the truth.
 I mean, as you were walking through some of those scriptures, that is the purpose.
 You, you are spreading misinformation in order to divide.
 And yeah, at the end, you can't distinguish fact from fiction.
 You feel like you can't trust others.
 You, you lose side of reality.
 You get distracted from your work.
 Again, to make mistakes. Well, if you lose integrity, then the ship loses integrity.
 That is not a great plan when you're out at sea. So there you go.
 Yeah, you know, it's so funny.
 I love that you use that example. I was working on the ridge with, so here in Tennessee, it's so funny.
 This would never have happened in California.
 At least I would not have been able to do this fire is such a big concern out there.
 But here in Tennessee, we can lots of fun fire like crazy.
 You know, we just, it just, it's amazing.
 We've got acres and acres of all these trees and we've had to clear some, and we just torture them.
 And I mean, it just, it goes up. It's great. It's fantastic.
 I don't, you know, don't have to worry about liking a forest on fire because everything's too wet.
 We were working it and we're using our excavator and a pin fell out. The pin holding the bucket.
 So the pin that held the pin must have come undone.
 And then the pin that held the bucket fell out in the bucket just hit the ground.
 It was so funny. I was talking to Brian, Brian Dudley, who works up here.
 And I said, well, hopefully that thing didn't go into the fire. I don't think it did.
 I said, well, if it does, I mean, it's just pure steel.
 I said, so it'll still be usable. It goes, yeah, but it was a week in it.
 And it was just a, it was just a great comment.
 In that moment of, you know, that metal will now be weak or, you know, had that pin holding the bucket onto the excavator.
 If it did fall into this pretty raging fire, then there is the tendency that that metal could become weak.
 And I really think that is a great analogy for us that as we take on gossip as we gossip about people, you know, as you talked about the integrity, our integrity weakens, you know, we aren't as strong.
 And if I'm willing to gossip about somebody right now, which by the way, I need to tell you some things about Joel. We'll do it after the show.
 Anyways.
 Hey, look at that. I could make a joke every now and then.
 But if I am willing to take part in gossip, then, you know, what does that mean about my integrity? It's going to weaken.
 So, all right.
 Yeah.
 We got some man.
 I haven't looked at these questions.
 I don't know what you're going to have you.
 You see, they're easy.
 And we'll get into on the work side of this first, but, you know, I'm thinking about the leaders that are listening parents that are listening because we'll touch some on the on the home side.
 But yeah, I mean, gosh, when you're just talking about fire, I was thinking about the verse in the book of James, where he talks about the tongue, light things on fire.
 And just think about how we're allowing that if we allow gossip in our home or in the workplace, we're weakening the fortification, the integrity of that environment that structure.
 Man, this is weighty.
 The responsibility here is super, super weighty.
 So here we go.
 Into the first work culture question, I'm imagining this as I'm reading it coming maybe from a leader who says, I've got a sneaking suspicion that people are whispering behind my back what do I do?
 We'll just start.
 Okay.
 And these are from followers, right? I believe these questions are coming in from people.
 So it is we do have to assume some things in that question, right?
 If it is a leader, well, I guess if it's anybody.
 The question is, do I do something about people whispering about me behind my back? What's missing?
 My first question would be, do they have a reason to?
 Right? Should they be doing it? No, but what could they possibly be whispering about?
 Right?
 Obviously, a healthy person isn't going to whisper behind you behind your back. A healthy person if there's something that they're struggling with is going to come to you, confront you with it.
 If it's something that needs to be dealt with or if they're healthy and it doesn't need to be dealt with, they're going to get over.
 So we're obviously not talking about healthy people, healthy situations.
 I can tell you what I don't tend to care or worry about somebody whispering behind my back.
 Maybe that's because I don't feel like I've got anything that they have any reason whispering about.
 Is it kind of like you, you want to say, hey, welcome to leadership.
 You feel like a secular whispering behind me?
 Oh, my God.
 Yeah, welcome.
 Yeah, the funny, yeah, I mean, that's one of the things we talk about when we're talking about leaders with their worth and you know, trying to hide, you know, when you're early on in your leadership, you feel like you're hiding your mistakes from your team.
 And I always say, you're taking those your mistakes, man. They've been aware of that for a long time before you do before you do.
 Before you do, so don't even worry about that. That's, they really know it.
 But what if they are whispering? What do you do about it?
 Um, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I
 And I think that maybe they are. So here's a deal. If you've not done anything wrong, if there's nothing to whisper about, then why are you having that concern, right? You obviously don't know that they are because otherwise it wouldn't be. I'm assuming it would be people are doing this, right?
 So if you're doing something wrong that may cause some whispering, then how would start with me?
 How do I fix the thing that I'm doing? How do I change the thing that I'm doing that's causing people to, and it's not causing people people are choosing to whisper if they are.
 So for my health, how do I fix me, right? Focus on that, start there.
 But what do I do if people are gossiping? Well, you can try and go out there and ask, are people gossiping? What is that going to look like?
 Where's your, where's your worth then? What is that, you know, speak to your people?
 So if I'm looking at this from a leadership role, the first thing I'm going to do is look at me. If I'm assuming people are whispering by my back, I'm having worth issues.
 I need to focus on the worth issue. If I am doing something that would be worthy, which worthy is not the right word, but people would gossip about, I need to focus on that. What am I doing there?
 If I continue to be concerned with it, then man, I'm really struggling. I got to go even further.
 All of those aspects for me from the question, the way that the question is posed.
 I'm going to say, man, you know, if people are whispering about you behind your back, going after that is just going to create more problems.
 Focus on you take care of you. If the thing was, if somebody was saying, people are gossiping that's a completely different answer, and we need to address gossip itself.
 Right.
 But just know that the person who wrote this, the assumption part is screaming what they're really experiencing, and that is, you know, the concern.
 That something is happening, and they don't know it.
 Right. Which speaks to two things. Worth issues.
 A few much worse in people. And second that they're possibly doing something that they believe people would be whispering about.
 Yeah. And we're back to that integrity issue that we started out with.
 Yeah. The second one, a little bit more nuanced. I've caught someone spreading lies. Maybe that's part A, part B, but they won't tell me why or what's really going on.
 And we're talking, these are untruths. These are lies. What do we do with that?
 So if we assume the leadership aspect, then I am going to handle lies as a cultural issue. We do not lie around here.
 You know, that is going to be something that I don't. There's a couple. I can deal with all kinds of stuff. I can deal with all kinds of failures.
 There's so many things I can handle. Don't lot of me and don't steal from me. Those are two things that man, I got to get you fired really fast.
 And that probably tells you a lot about what I've experienced in my life. That that is that speaks a lot to my root system.
 Those are things that I absolutely hate and I think it's so destructive.
 So for me, I'm always going to handle the lying. If I find that you've been lying, I'm going to address it in, you know, I'm going to try and find out why. Why are you telling this? Why are you saying this? If I can't get a why from you, if I can't get an answer from you,
 my response is still the same. This is unacceptable. We do not allow this. This is destructive. You need to now go take responsibility for this. You know, so on and so far. The years ago,
 I had a sales guy that just was so so focused on himself. So narcissistic and you know willing to do whatever.
 He came to me to go, oh man, I just got the sale and you know, it's really big ticket item, big sale and he told me everything he said and he was super excited.
 So that piece right there is not true and he goes, oh, but yeah, but he doesn't. It doesn't matter. I mean, we got the sale. I'm like, no, no, that's not truth.
 Because it doesn't matter. And I went, nope, go back, call that person, tell them that you misspoke if they want their money back, give them their money back, but we're not taking this money with that untruth having been spook.
 You're kidding. I mean, he was pissed. He's like, you're kidding me. I'm like, no, I'm not kidding you and never lie again.
 And see, he had to go back and call that client up and go, hey, I'm a spoke on this and he was right. The client was like, no big deal.
 And so for him, it was like, see, and I'm like, I don't care if it wasn't again, though. That's right, exactly. I don't care if it wasn't a big deal. It's still a lie.
 And one of the things that I've said forever is I don't want any illegitimate dollars.
 I have said daughter once on accident dollars coming into this business and I don't want it.
 Speak the truth, speak the truth. Yeah, not so good. And it goes right into the third question that we have here is and again from a leaders standpoint, but you know, all of these, we could have
 transposed to the home, the culture in the home and we'll get to that in a second, but the last one here, how can I cultivate a culture of honesty, transparency and truth, but without being oppressive.
 How do we, where's the attention there? Because I know we talk about culture. We talk about teaching it, forcing it, repeating it.
 We're always, you know, that's why we have leadership teams. We just finish that that cultivate series, talking about leadership teams or your, you know, allies in creating that culture and your business or in your home.
 You've got your spouse as an ally, but how do you do that without it becoming a regime of oppression?
 So the cognitive dissonance I'm having is creating trust creating oppression.
 It's not like any sense of my head. So I'm trying to run through what is this person meaning, how would creating a culture of trust create a culture of oppression? I don't.
 I'm going to have to ruin it on the other side. I think where my mind goes as I read that is maybe they've been involved in some groups or environments where everything is so
 pressed towards telling the truth, honesty, transparency, all of that that it can become like to the end degree to an extreme in the sense of somebody, you know, maybe the leader's paranoid, maybe the leader is wrestling like you mentioned from the first question dealing with some of those worth issues going on.
 You know, you're always looking over their shoulder, they're always, you know, hey, are you guys talking about me, you know, that kind of thing where it becomes kind of that extension of their worth issues and insecurities.
 Yeah, that's a tough one because I don't think you are creating a culture either way it's a conflict, right? I don't think you're creating if it's a press of you're not creating a culture of trust.
 So I think what we have to focus on there is the culture, you know, it is the oppression. If I have to be so over the top attentive to whether or not somebody is miss speaking, I don't even want that business.
 I don't want to show up to that place every day. I don't want to experience that. I forget that noise, right? So the key is that's also going to come back to the worth issue of you're trying to create a culture of trust and yet you don't.
 What do you have to do to create a culture of anything? Model it. You have to model it. If I can't be trust in, which means that I'm also able to be vulnerable, what's the biggest part of trust vulnerability, right?
 If I can't trust you with my vulnerability, I can't trust you period. One of the things we talk about in in strap, I use an old saying and it's a silly saying but it really drives the point home.
 When we're talking about these leadership teams in strap, because many leadership teams like each other, know each other and enjoy talking with each other but deep down they don't trust each other and they don't even many times I don't even know it until they get inside and we pull things apart and it's like, oh my gosh.
 I didn't realize that I didn't trust the very, I love these people, but I didn't realize I don't trust them. There's an old military saying, I don't know which branch it came from.
 You know, I can trust you with my life. Let me ask Joel.
 Yeah, let's ask Joel. He'll have that answer.
 The saying is, you know, I can trust you with my life but can I trust you with my money and my wife. Now it seems like I'm silly saying it is a silly saying but really what is that saying?
 I trust you with my life but my life is less important to me than my money and my wife. Those are those are the areas that I'm most vulnerable with and I can't.
 I can put my life on the line with you and trust that you've got my back.
 I can be vulnerable there, but I don't want you around my wife and I sure don't want you around my money, which I don't know why I guess money comes first because it rhymes.
 Not a dumb like you would think my wife is a priority issues there that we could take into the rhyming throws that off a little bit but it drives the point home.
 Right. If I can't be, if I can't trust you with the things that I'm most vulnerable with, I can't trust you.
 There will never be complete trust. Right.
 So if I'm going to have a culture of trust, I can't be oppressive. I can't be constantly looking over my shoulder. I can't constantly be checking.
 Yeah, because I'm not trusting, which means I'm not being vulnerable myself.
 We hit heavy duty stuff inside of our staff meetings and inside of our devotionals.
 I feel like I'm pretty darn vulnerable. I put myself out there in ways that I have no doubt that people on our team go, well, he's a little crazy from time to time, but oh well.
 I mean, it's like because I don't, I'm not worried about it. I'm not worried about man's opinion. I'm not struggling on, oh gosh, what do all my team members did I please every team member today?
 No, we're about it. Right. This is the stuff we're doing here's the stuff that we believe in this business here, you know, all that kind of stuff. I put that out there and have a problem with it.
 I model that vulnerability and I ask that my team does it too and it's great to see when that actually happens. Like, I'm giving an example. We had a great devotional as we're going through some deep material.
 And I'm like asking people asking any questions, push back, whatever you got. And I loved it that one of our team members spoke up and you could tell when the team members spoke up, they're still this deep inside concern am I being judged?
 And the first thing I tackled when that person stopped speaking was, hey, there's no judgment to this here, right?
 The fear that we have to speak up is our people judging me as Chris Judge Me is anybody if anybody's judging you is coming from an unhealthy side. So let's first just tackle that there is no judgment. It doesn't matter.
 Be focused on what God judges you on, not what man judges you on, right? And just allowing the people to know it's okay to speak up and push back. Right? My team pushes back a me you've pushed back on me many times in our years of working there.
 Respect with the way with as you say with minimal judgment. There's judgment all right. There's all there's good be there minimal.
 You've always felt okay to push back or you would have never pushed back, right? These are things that we have that type of relationship.
 And I want people to understand that if you're going to expect that culture, you got to model it. You got to allow it, right? I tell our team feel free to push back. Don't be disrespectful.
 Don't be a jerk about it, but feel free. And if somebody can't handle that, then we need to handle that aspect up. Right? If you are genuinely pushing back on something because you don't understand it and somebody can't take that, then we need to handle the person who can't take it.
 So if I'm going to create a culture of trust, I better treat people. This is leading into a different aspect of this question. I better treat people well when they're vulnerable.
 So with that being said, the way that I handled that situation, you know, I hate to say I look at me. I'm so amazing. The way that I expect everybody on my team to handle the situation, where that team member spoke up is the same way.
 Treat them with respect and dignity. There's no judgment here. Thank you for being vulnerable. Thank you for throwing that out there. Let's tackle that. Right? So that that person can feel like it's okay to speak up.
 Because when I do not trust you and I do not believe that you have my best interest at heart and I do believe your judge in the crap out of me, forget it. You're never getting trust out of me. You're never getting vulnerability out of me. I'm not going to take the risks that you pay me to take.
 I'm going to do the things to preserve myself and go home at the end of the day and get a paycheck. Yeah, no, I love the the contrast that you tease out there just in the in the question itself to say, hey, look, these two things don't go together. If we have a top thing culture.
 Yeah, you're going to be experiencing some of these issues, but if it is really a culture, the healthy culture where we're truth is honesty is prized it's a value.
 You're not going to have a sense of this oppressiveness or you know the the toxic totalitarian, you know approach those things are not going to be found hand in hand. And so yeah, beautiful beautiful.
 There are things for the clarity there and then in the home, you know, we need to start wrapping up here. I keep thinking these are going to be really. So it's we're just going to sail right through them.
 And yet another nautical job, another nautical analogy for you anyway. But coming coming back into the to the home because a lot of these same issues, I mean,
 I think we're going to be really happy to be able to do that. And then we're going to be happy to be able to do that.
 I love what you were talking about just at at the very beginning with a team member, we could say that also as parents, hey, we don't do this.
 Yeah, isn't what we do. We don't lie. We don't cheat. We don't steal. We don't, you know, paint the truth in different colors and shades to put us in a better light.
 You know, we show that that honesty and transparency and truth is prized it is a is a value in the home. What else could we encourage parents here that are struggling with some of this negativity in their homes.
 Well, why do we lie? Right. We're lying because we're trying to protect ourselves. We're lying because we're trying to get away with something we're lying because we're trying to gain worth.
 We lie for attention. You know, there's all these different aspects and what is so for those of us that are believers, we believe that you know, most lies are a sin, right.
 Interestingly, we will find certain things in scripture that actually were a benefit, but all in all, we believe that lying is not a good thing.
 And because it's not a good thing, we have to look at how it's destructive, how it's, you know, how is this hurting somebody else or relationship or or.
 And so for me, you know, again lying and stealing those are two things. I'm going to hit them pretty hard, but I'm always going to go into teaching mode.
 You know, help somebody to understand how destructive and why it's destructive and how painful and how in the moment it seems like this is the right thing to do, but what does this create on the other side.
 And how does this affect somebody on the other side and how does this affect relationship and you think that you got away with this, but here's what this is doing here and so on and so far.
 So for me, I'm going to try and go into not lecture mode, but just let me try and help you to understand the.
 Evil inclination here, you know, what is this doing and how is this affecting things and if you can see that, then hopefully you can choose a better response, right?
 So if I choose lying, you know, we're huge on choices and consequences if I choose good choices, I choose good consequences.
 But choose bad choices, that choose bad consequences, either way the consequence is because of my choice. No sense at no victim mentality allowed it's my choice, right?
 So if I can recognize the consequence of my lying.
 If I'm a, you know, a parent or if I'm a leader, if I can recognize that by lying, I've pushed somebody away.
 I don't get their trust anymore, I don't get their vulnerability, I don't get their risk taking. That's all on me. Was it worth it for that one time lie or multiple lines, whatever the situation is same thing as a parent, what should I teach my kids.
 Do you understand that I'm now struggling to believe what you say? Do you understand that it's now created a situation in our relationship where I'm going to hold back this part until I can trust you again.
 Do you understand that I'm not going to allow you to do X, Y and Z because of this lie, do you and walk through those.
 Here's the ultimate consequences being able to teach not from anger, not from being upset, but help them your job is to parent is to educate them, right?
 Help them with their decision making process choices, the consequences leads to that, right? You help them to make good decisions.
 I can help that child understand because you lied, this is how it is. Now if it's one time deal, may not need to go into this, but if I see that this is a pattern pattern.
 Here's where I am with you. I am now not trusting you in this area.
 I'm now holding back on what I'm going to allow you to do in this area. Not holding back love holding back activities or you know here's some consequences that are coming from that. If I can help that child to see, hey, this is really bad and ultimately more importantly, if I can help them to see how God sees it.
 Then gosh, I don't know any better ways to hopefully stop that child or even a don't from lying.
 Yeah, and that kind of brings us to just this wrapping up this conclusion because we were talking at the very beginning about how it can so quickly spiral out of control it goes viral.
 So quick like the feathers from the pillow in the wind, we are dust in the wind, which raises to this little filter test that this this philosopher would have with his students is kind of adapted, but let me let me know what you think of it.
 For if you're from southern California and your names are billent head, his name is philosopher is so crates. So crazy came up with this.
 But he would ask his students before he would allow them to tell him something they had heard.
 Whether it was about him or about somebody else, he would ask them, is it absolutely true? Is it are you 100% sure it's true? Is it is it good? Is it healthy? Is it positive he would ask?
 And the third thing will it help? Is it helpful? And 90% of the time their heads would hang down low they'd walk away and he'd be better for it. So would they? What could we adapt to your what what else would we add to or take away from this little little gossip filter test?
 What I love about good ol so crates or psychotasas those who are wondering what they're talking about.
 What I love about that is how much he protected himself as well.
 We read that and we go, oh gosh, he's doing such a good job teaching people not to gossip, not to lie not to you know, even to the last piece will it help you telling me this thing.
 That's huge. Does it matter if you didn't tell me does it hurt anything if you do tell me does it help anything? Well, no, well, then why do you want me to know?
 Because then intent is behind it again everything that he asked is all about your intent was telling me something it's not about is the thing actually is the information important it's really about what you're intent behind it.
 Right. So if it doesn't help anything for you to tell me then why are you going to tell me in the first place.
 Right. Now keep in mind everything in that aspect is about somebody else, you know, if I wanted to say,
 I don't know, Brian had the best tennis match he's ever had the other day and I wanted to share that with somebody will it help.
 I'm a true. Let's say, first thing through the truth. No, Brian does not play tennis he would like to but he cannot.
 So let's just stop right don't tell me anything about it.
 But if let's say it did happen, even to that third point will it help. Well, it may help you to know and be proud of Brian for getting us but out there and doing something good.
 Okay. Well, then that's a different thing. You know, it's socrates is in saying let's not have any conversations whatsoever about other people. You know, it's it's really what's the intent behind all of this.
 If the intent is positive, if it's pure great fabulous, that's awesome. Right.
 So I think that's I think that's great. I think it's great for the person who's approaching with the thing that wants to talk about it but it's also incredibly powerful.
 How it keeps negativity gossip, you know, backbiting backstabbing out of my life. If and here's the funny thing 90% of people drop their head and turn away.
 How many people don't come back with a second thing.
 You know, I mean, how well they're going to make the answer that again, right?
 Yeah, I'm almost just filters out this I'm not even going to approach him until I answer these three questions, which means I'm chances are he's not hearing a whole bunch of crap about a bunch of people.
 So I think it's powerful. It's good. I think that's good in the home to for for parents and that's probably just good advice for all of us to think about before we open our mouths. Is it absolutely true?
 Is it positively good and will it help someone or not?
 Wow.
 You know, the thing that comes to mind right then in there is with parents that are a little bit more submissive.
 How not having those types of standards allow a child and enable a child to play one parent against the other.
 What should the standard be when my child comes to me and says, you know, mommy won't let me do this.
 My standard better be. Why are you to why are you coming to me? Why are you telling me if mommy told you know the answer is no don't come to me again.
 You know that understand mommy and daddy are on the same page we are unified.
 You know we're going to back each other. And so as you say that that's that's the thing that comes to mind because we have a lot of folks that deal a lot of folks that deal with and don't know how to parent that.
 And if we have these standards in our household, you know, like you just said, then it changes the way a child looks at how they're going to, you know, approach their parents.
 Right. Good stuff. Well, brother, thank you again for joining me.
 Late in Sicily. I know it's considerably later over there.
 But thank you for this. This was great. Great episode. My pleasure.
 Well, folks, that's all the time we have for today.
 Truth is we probably could talk on this for another hour, but we're not going to save your time.
 So that's all we've got. We hope this was helpful for you. We love your questions. Please continue to ask them, send them onto us podcastactors@gmail.com.
 And as always, we hope that you take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]