 [Music]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show folks. I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 I want to start today with a quote and I will tell you upfront that it's kind of a bitter pill to swallow.
 So we're going to hit a topic that could be holding you back from health and growth.
 So we're not going to let the fact that it's painful keep us from gaining the perspective that we need.
 So here's the quote and it's from Robert Green, who's an author.
 I'm going to tell you the quote first and I'll tell you where probably it's coming from.
 We humans are self-absorbed by nature and spend most of our time focusing inwardly on our emotions on our wounds on our fantasies.
 Woo! So true, so powerful if you get it.
 So helpful if you focus on how not to be so self-absorbed.
 I have not read any of Robert's books. At some of the titles, I'm probably not going to either.
 But I'm just saying that he's got a great quote there.
 And it is pointing to the self-absorbed nature that we have.
 We do focus inwardly on our emotions.
 You've heard us talk about all of this a ton that when we're looking inside, what does that do to us?
 And by the way, isn't this a really honest look at modern society?
 If it isn't, then I don't know what it is. This is what people are so focused on being self-absorbed.
 Isn't anything new? It's been around since the beginning of time.
 You're probably familiar with the term narcissism.
 Well, it's based on ancient Greek mythology.
 Someone named Narcissus, if I'm saying that correctly, was known for his good looks.
 He was so good looking. He has said to have been so self-absorbed that he rejected many romantic advances.
 And eventually fell in love with his own reflection. It's a pool of water staring at it for the rest of his life.
 Well, I could tell you not much has changed for a thousand years, right? For a few thousand years.
 So I don't want to go too deep on this point.
 But look at what narcissism is. If we look at it by definition, it is the excessive interest in or admiration of oneself and one's physical appearance.
 Now, I will tell you, and I agree with a definition that narcissism is so focusing on oneself, even to the detriment of others.
 That is usually what we see a lot more of in what we do is that if we find narcissism, whether it be in a controlling family member or controlling person in somebody's life,
 or it's not difficult to take that definition and look at society and see that there are so many people that are so focused on themselves.
 That many times it's to the detriment of others. What does it look like? A vanity, self love, self admiration, self absorption, self obsession.
 Right? Being so obsessed, I can see it. I look at these people who are, what are they called Instagram stars or whatever?
 All these people that are so focused on themselves, that they are making this life of people following them talking about themselves.
 Not even really great quality content, maybe I'm wrong. Maybe they're putting out amazing pieces of information that's changing other people's lives.
 What is it about? It's about that person. Take a look at my vacation spot, take a look at my wardrobe, take a look at my makeup, take a look at all these things, let me show you me.
 Let me show you what I do, look at me looking at me. It is amazing to me that this is something that people are so focused on.
 I've got to ask the question, I mean, please understand, maybe I'm miss speaking about this because I actually don't even focus on that stuff.
 I don't see bits and pieces of that, so I don't really know.
 But what I have seen has been nothing but self obsession with very little, if any at all, quality for the person who's watching it.
 Right? I'm not saying that you can't learn how to put you make it up on better. That's not what I'm saying.
 I'm talking about the incredible focus on the person, the self absorption of the person. Right?
 It is just beyond me and we are seeing it more and more and more and more and more and more and more.
 It is incredible to me how many times people will post pictures of themselves. Somebody could be going through a tragic situation or a painful situation and people will jump to social media to talk about their pain of that other person's pain.
 How much they're hurting because of the pain that somebody else has gone through.
 So focused on yourself. Right? What are the things that just drives me nuts is posting pictures of, you know, if it's, well, I'm just not even, I shouldn't even get into that.
 I think you get the point.
 In psychology it's characterized by selfishness involving a sense of entitlement, a lack of empathy and a need, a need for admiration.
 I need to be admired. Now, while not much has changed with man's heart. Today we've got tons of more tools to help us admire ourselves.
 To help us pursue our validating self interest and to become more self obsessed.
 It is incredible how many tools are out there to do this. You might even be listening to this podcast on your iPhone, which is a huge culprit.
 I mean, tool. What it comes to sitting and staring at ourselves. Right? Think about what we call this device. We call it an eye phone.
 Now, if our Scottish had probably say, I'd be looking for me phone. Where's me phone?
 All right. Well, you get the point. There's my greatest Scottish accent right there.
 But look at how many things are focused on eye eye this eye that eye this eye that. So we're going to hit some truths today that are hopefully going to help us to not be so self absorbed or so self focused truth.
 Number one. Here's a truth.
 When your world consists of just you, it's an incredibly small world to live in. Folks, God did not put you on this earth and give you a calling and give you a hope in the future and send his son to rescue you from yourself.
 Just to have you pursue your own self interests. I'm sorry. It's not that's not while you're here. Nope.
 This is where we have to push back on society and oppose the direction of the culture or swimming in.
 How many times do you hear people shouting the best thing you can do to help other people is take really good care of yourself.
 When you look at their suggestions of how to take care of you, it's self obsession. It's self focus.
 Taking care of the self care movement is rarely about the actual definition of self care.
 It's really about putting your own self on a pedestal and looking after you.
 Very few people are actually out there talking about taking care of you in a true legitimate self care way that's not focusing on you and making you self obsessed again.
 Right? It's just ridiculous. These teachings that are out there that are telling you you're the important one. It's all about you.
 It's just abundant and toxic.
 So would you really want it all that way anyways? Think about it. What kind of existence is that?
 If you are the center of your own world, your own attention, your own vain pursuits, then what kind of life is it? Is it a life that's even worth living?
 Did I show maybe a wake-up call for someone out there? Hey, what are you pursuing today?
 The fact is it's only existence if you are the object and goal of your own pursuits.
 Now, you follow this show. So my assumption is many of you out there. If you're relating to this, it's in a smaller percentage.
 You're probably not the self absorbed person. You're probably not the self obsessed person, but I'm pretty sure everybody out there can at least relate to this to some aspect.
 If you are the self obsessed person, fantastic. This is going to be a great show. Well, what do I might be nothing but painful?
 But for all of us who have some level of this in our lives, it's a fantastic wake-up call.
 It's a fantastic thing for us to say, what am I doing? Am I focused on me and my focused on God?
 Am I pursuing myself interests? Am I pursuing the things that the he wants me to go after, right?
 So stick with me on this. If you're hearing this and going, oh, I know who that is. Well, make sure that you're doing a really hard search inside, okay?
 So we're talking today mostly about what happens to you when you pursue yourself. You become inward focused, isolated and untethered from reality, but it doesn't stop there.
 So before I unpack truth number two, let me say that another part of the danger of self pursuit is how you put others at risk around you. Now what do I mean by that?
 If you're objective in life is self love, if it's self-locus, if it's personal gain, then you will see people, other people, as objects to be used towards your goals.
 It is not difficult to look around our society and see folks who do not have our relationship with God or even believe in God that see people as tools.
 That's see people as a means to their ends.
 We see it in some of the most powerful business people on the planet. There are a lot of people who in the business leadership space are telling you how important you are.
 Well, if the focus is you going after all these goals and making all this money and doing all these things and growth growth growth growth growth and you know, constant work, you know, four clock in the morning until 12 o'clock at night.
 You pursue you say that three times fast pursue you pursue you, pursue you, pursue you, pursue you, then what kind of life is it?
 Are those the people you should be following?
 How are you going to see other people? You're going to see them as goals. You will end up using those you love and those who love you.
 You will end up damaging the relationships that you've been given. And you end up isolating yourself from healthy input and good perspective. This is one of the most painful things that I see in what we do for a living.
 Unfortunately, people who put goals and themselves above other things, they cannot stick to reality.
 They live in a state of denial.
 They live in a state of what I'm doing is okay with what I'm doing. It's so right. It's so good.
 And many times they cannot see how their bad decision making is affecting their lives and how it's affecting other people.
 Somebody might push back on that by saying, well, what about me and my needs and all of this, right?
 I get it. You've got to address that in a healthy and a reasonable way.
 But right now, I'm pushing back on the culture that says it's all about you because it's just not.
 And unfortunately, some of those folks who are all about themselves truly believe that they're all about other people.
 Here's the deceptive part about it.
 There are folks that are going ballistic to fulfill their own personal goals and interests in life and tell themselves that they're doing it for other people.
 When deep down inside, other people are part of them reaching their own goals.
 It's not saying that other people won't be blessed. It's not saying that other people won't be impacted.
 But what they're telling themselves doesn't align with their actions.
 Crazy thing. I love what Zigg said.
 And you guys know me. I've got tons of Zigg quotes in my head that may not be exact quotes, but it's pretty darn close.
 If you help enough people get what they want, you'll get what you want.
 If you help other people get what they want, you'll get what you want.
 What does that mean? If you go after getting what you want,
 well, other people are going to probably end up being a tool in that process.
 If you care about other people and you pour yourself out to help other people get what they want,
 think about what we do. This is a free show that we have had tons of responses of people that run successful businesses,
 starting with and using the tools that we teach, the lessons that we teach.
 We're constantly teaching people how to better themselves.
 Right? In healthy ways.
 Well, because we do that, great thing is it puts food on our table. It helps us as well.
 Right? So I truly believe in that.
 If it was about us going after our goals, if it was about me going after my goals,
 man, life would look so different for me.
 Life would be considerably different. I would be sitting in a vineyard in Sanoma,
 maybe in a maybe Napa somewhere with a restaurant on the property,
 doing something completely different. But that's not the life God's called me to.
 I enjoy that fantasy in my mind, but that's not the life God's called me to,
 and that's not the life I'm going after.
 So truth number two, here's the truth.
 And to you pursue something higher bigger than yourself,
 you'll never discover who you really are,
 or maybe a better way to say that is who you are meant to be.
 So we live in a world right now that tells you things like,
 you do you.
 Don't worry about others. Go after what you really want.
 After all, you deserve to be happy.
 There's so many women in the, in the thought leader world that are telling all these other women,
 go to the mountain top and screen to the world who you are.
 Why?
 What is that going to do for you?
 Right?
 It's just crazy what the world is telling us and these supposed thought leaders, men and women,
 that are put, you know, there's in the men thought leader world.
 There's so many guys telling you to sacrifice so much so that you can accomplish your goals.
 You know, the whole working from four o'clock in the morning until midnight.
 You know, it's just beyond ridiculous.
 It's only for a short period of time. No, it's not that level of hustle that they call it,
 destroys families.
 I'm not saying there's not a period of time you can go and do things,
 but you, you have to understand what you do for a living is not your most important value.
 And it's definitely not to God.
 Go read Ephesians four five and six and see how God lays out relationships.
 He's supposed to be the most important thing.
 Your spouse is supposed to be the most important human being.
 Your kids are supposed to be the next most important human beings not the other way around.
 No kids should go before spouse and then your work should be focused on.
 So if you're listening to these guys out there screaming that, you know, you're not hustling enough.
 If your family's falling apart because of your hustle, then you should be changing who influences you.
 It's not about you guys.
 You are not hearing me say don't push your butt. You hear me say all the time on here.
 Buster butt. Go do your work. Go put food on the table. Go fight for success on things.
 But not at the expense of your family.
 Definitely not at the expense of your relationship with God.
 Nothing is more important than that.
 Right? So for me, my team, we bust it.
 We bust it hard. I mean, we work our butts off.
 But we don't overdo it. We work hard. We love God. We love our families.
 And we work hard. We love you guys.
 We bust our butts to take care of people.
 That's what you should be focusing on.
 And the other aspects you do you don't worry about others.
 Go get what you really want. Go do the things you deserve to be happy.
 All that crap. Those are dead end goals.
 Their worthless pursuits, their vain tasks.
 You don't deserve to be happy. Sorry.
 If you don't like that, I'm sorry.
 Happiness isn't something you deserve. Happiness is a choice.
 You can choose to be happy. Hey, all my people please, there's out there. Listen to me.
 You can't make anybody happy because they can always choose not to be happy.
 So understand happiness is a choice. You don't deserve it. Go make it.
 Go choose to be happy. Go recognize all the blessings that you do have.
 I've got a good friend of mine who's going through a horrible situation in his life right now.
 It's one of those that I'm praying for. I just keep telling man, I'm sorry.
 Trying to guide and direct. And you know what he keeps saying.
 Chris, there's a million people who'd rather be in my shoes right now.
 And he's so right.
 Is difficult as his situation is.
 There's a ton of people who are in worse situations that rather being his situation than the situation they're in.
 So just great perspective, right?
 So even if you're not a believer, you've got to admit that this is doing you more harm than good by being focused on yourself, right?
 So let me read you an excerpt from Forbes article that came out not too terribly long ago.
 Research shows that people who have connected to a purpose that is greater than themselves are happier, more contented,
 enjoy richer relationships and are more resilient in the face of adversity than those who haven't.
 They're also far more inspiring leaders.
 And here's where we segue into the next truth.
 They're also far more inspiring leaders.
 Listen, it's about loving, serving, helping and leaving other people.
 You can't do those things well. You're sure not going to do it happy.
 You're sure not going to be content. You're definitely not going to have richer relationships.
 You're focusing on issues. And by the way, you're definitely not going to be more resilient in the face of adversity.
 You know, I shared this, probably about 10 episodes back or so on resilience.
 That the way that you become more resilient is by adding more of the positive aspects so that when the negative aspects come, you have so many positive aspects that the negative aspects bounce off of you.
 I know that's a simplified way of saying it, but think about it.
 How do you become resilient to negative things? You don't have a ton of negative things in your life in the first place.
 If you're focusing solely on you, if you're focusing even to a smaller percentage, if it's about you, then guess what?
 You're going to have a lot more negativity, which means that you're not going to be as resilient as the negative aspects come on.
 All right, truth number three, here's the truth.
 Self-sacrifice, not self-perceute is the way to a healthier, more contented life.
 Let me say it again, self-sacrifice, not self-perceute is the way to a healthier, more contented life.
 The fact is that today, depression and suicide are on the rise despite the fact that we're able to pursue ourselves more than ever, looking at for own self-interest.
 Think about that for a second.
 As humans were not designed to function this way, isolated alone in a corner with a self-phone.
 We're meant to love to enjoy life to serve others and to pursue God's plan and purpose for our lives.
 We're not meant to be isolated, focusing on getting every bit of you into you.
 It's just, it's so detrimental.
 It's so detrimental.
 Get off your phone, by the way.
 Spend less time on it.
 Spend less time on TV.
 Spend more time with family.
 Spend more time on a dinner table.
 Spend more time getting out of nature.
 Get your feet grounded.
 It's something I love a fantastic perspective on when Moses came upon the burning bush.
 And the angel said, take off your sandals, you're on a holy ground.
 It's a fantastic perspective.
 And I hold on to this because I love it.
 Why was the ground holy?
 Interestingly enough, if you think about it, believeers, those of us who are believers.
 And even if you're not a believer, well, I don't know how you would connect to this.
 But anyways, what were we made from?
 What was Adam made from?
 The ground, the dirt, the dust of the earth.
 Interestingly, what if what the angel was saying to Moses was, take off your sandals so you become more connected.
 Where you come from?
 Isn't it interesting that a popular thing that's going around now is what's called grounding?
 Where people are spending time?
 We've had these rubber souls on our shoes for so long.
 We're not grounding to the earth.
 And now a big thing that people are discovering is how much inflammation comes out of your body by grounding.
 Just interesting stuff.
 What if you spent less time on electronics on fake images of stuff that's entering your mind on being selfish and self-centered and instead?
 Go lay out a picnic blanket and spend time with your family by a pond somewhere.
 I don't care.
 Do something.
 All right.
 Victor Frankill, who I love to quote, who survived the Nazi concentration camps, remembers what it was like.
 He says this, we who lived in concentration camps can remember the men who walked through the huts comforting others, giving away their last piece of bread.
 They may have been few and number, but they offer sufficient proof that everything can be taken from a man, but one thing.
 The last of the human freedoms and that is to choose one's attitude in any given set of circumstances to choose one's own way.
 So powerful.
 Instead, what we see in our comparatively easy generation is more like this, Frankill continues.
 When a person can't find a deep sense of meaning, they distract themselves with pleasure.
 Whoa.
 Folks, is any of this resonating with you today?
 We see so many people come through, next level of life who struggled with their worth.
 It's not something to be embarrassed about.
 It's part of this broken world that we live in.
 Everybody, everybody deals with it.
 It's also not something that will just go away if we ignore it.
 So if you're struggling with your worth, if you're struggling with the lies that are on repeat inside of your head, then we want to help.
 We've got a ton of free material on our website to check out.
 Just search the keywords like worth lies, root system.
 You can start at episode 455, why worth really matters.
 It's a really powerful episode.
 But if you're really serious and you're ready to face the obstacles that you've been tripping over for years, then get yourself into a next level of life event.
 I'm telling you, make the choice, make the decision.
 Just get the information about it.
 Go to crsacrote.com/nexlevellife today.
 It's time to take the next step.
 It's time to get unstuck.
 It's time to move forward in a very healthy life.
 Much healthier life.
 Even if your life is great and you just know that maybe your plateau or stuck, make the decision.
 Chrislicrote.com/nexlevellife.
 Do it today.
 I want to leave you with some words from Yeshua.
 As recorded in Matthew chapter 6, let this sink in wherever you are today.
 Yeshua may be speaking to you.
 No, we call him Yeshua. That's his name.
 Jesus is a translation of it.
 It's not even the correct translation.
 It's a translation.
 Not to get into that debate here.
 But let me just tell you, if your name is Peter and people call you George and that's not the exact translation.
 Well, you probably want to be called Peter.
 Yeshua may be speaking to you with these very words today.
 I tell you, don't worry about your life.
 What you will eat or drink or about your body.
 What you will wear isn't life more than food, body more than clothes.
 Instead, underscore highlight, circle star, this instead seek first gods kingdom and gods righteousness.
 Yes, and all these things will be given to you in addition.
 He's not saying go pursue yourselves.
 He's not saying what the other supposed thought leaders in the space are saying to you.
 Go focus on you. Go do you.
 Go make your name known.
 Go shout who you are from the mountain tops.
 It's not what our God is saying to us.
 He's saying seek him first.
 It's kingdom first.
 Seek his righteousness first.
 What is righteousness in a simple form being right?
 Doing what is right.
 If you've never read the book, pagan Christianity,
 I highly, highly, highly, highly, highly, highly, highly, highly suggest you physically read it.
 Don't do the audible unless you're reading it with the book.
 Physically read the book.
 This is the one book I tell people, you need to read the words.
 Seek God's kingdom and righteousness.
 If you do those things, guess what he's going to do.
 He's going to take care of every aspect in your life.
 You won't have to.
 He'll do it.
 Here's the danger guys.
 If all you focus on where you're going to eat lunch next and what new jacket or trackshees you're going to wear,
 then you're missing out on so much of life.
 Yeshua says life is more than these things.
 It's not bad to have a good meal.
 It's not bad to wear good clothes, but a that's your pursuit.
 And that's all your life will consist of.
 For you business owners, if you're per suit is making the most successful business you possibly can,
 guess what you're going to miss out on, how amazing your family is.
 How amazing your kids are.
 But don't do it.
 Buster but what the time you have, make your business as successful as you possibly can,
 but not by sacrificing your family.
 So once again, you're not hearing me contradict myself.
 I'm telling you, I'm giving you the tools to make the most successful business and leadership team you possibly can.
 But it's never going to be more important.
 What are we saying at the beginning of the show?
 Business is what you do.
 It's not who you are.
 It's never going to be more important than your family.
 And please don't make it be more important than your relationship with God.
 God is calling you.
 He's calling me.
 He's calling us to pursue something bigger than ourselves.
 That is a life worth living.
 So here's some questions I want you to meditate on right now.
 Really focus on this.
 I want you to spend time thinking about this.
 What are you pursuing?
 What are you seeking?
 Answer those questions in your mind.
 Don't honest with you.
 Please don't convince yourself that you're doing all the most great amazing things if you're not.
 If you're a fantastic.
 But here's what I want you to know.
 Whatever those answers are.
 That's what you're going to find.
 Whatever those answers are.
 Whatever you're pursuing.
 Whatever you're seeking.
 That's what you're going to find.
 Well folks, that's all the time we have for today.
 I hope this is impactful for you.
 I hope this has helped you today.
 You know a lot of folks that need to hear this.
 You know a lot of folks that need to come to an understanding on this.
 Please help them to understand it.
 As always, take this information.
 Change your leadership.
 Change your business.
 Change your life.
 And join us on the next episode.
 [Music]