 The inner life of leaders.
 It's more than just how to succeed,
 be successful in all that jazz.
 It's about keeping you on track for the duration of your career and beyond.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show,
 where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do,
 not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 In a recent episode, I was talking about how leaders have to
 maintain their cool, even in difficult situations.
 Now you can go back and listen to that episode about managing unruly team members.
 You want to hear more about that episode, 518.
 So the fact is leadership is a messy business.
 I mean, we deal with people.
 People have struggles.
 We have struggles.
 I'm not saying that we're perfect because we're not.
 We are people too and we have our unrult systems that we have to deal with.
 But here's the other side of that coin.
 You can't lead effectively when you're out of control.
 You don't have the luxury of flying up the handle.
 Treating others poorly or behaving badly,
 especially if you want to continue to lead others.
 So if you continue to lead in this way,
 well, then pretty soon you're not going to have any followers.
 And by definition, if you want to know if you're leading,
 turn around.
 If nobody's actually following you,
 you're not leading.
 So like or not, you set the example and the expectations for the team
 and the culture that you're creating.
 So this goes for parents at home as well.
 You are leaders at home.
 What kind of a leader are you in your home?
 If you're flying off the handle and go back,
 I think it was I think in five 18 as well.
 We talked about choices and consequences.
 If you're flying off the handle at home,
 chances are you're not using choices and consequences at home.
 If I'm not going to phenomenal tool,
 go back and listen to it on how to do it.
 You don't have to be mad.
 You don't have to be upset.
 It's crazy.
 If you do it correctly,
 you don't have to be that kind of leader in your home.
 So can you imagine telling your teenager not to yell at you
 while you're yelling at them?
 Right?
 So on today's show,
 I want to dig into the secret life of a leader.
 What do you need to be doing?
 And how should you be cultivating the garden of your own heart?
 If you really want to lead others,
 well.
 So the bottom line is this.
 We have to learn to lead ourselves.
 Wow.
 That's what we're talking about on today's show.
 So seven habits to keep you as a leader,
 and your leadership on track.
 Really, and we're talking about seven ways to lead yourself effectively.
 They didn't you.
 So let's dive in.
 So habit number one.
 Woo.
 You got to conquer the inner dialogue people.
 I don't just mean having positive self talk,
 which is a huge part of it, right?
 You're going to have to learn to coach yourself and keep yourself on track.
 Constant coaching and self assessment is part of leading yourself.
 Well, we talk a lot about this in next level of life events,
 about conquering the lies that we tell ourselves.
 We call it battling the lies with truths,
 because folks it literally is a battle.
 It's a war.
 And the battlefield is your mind.
 I can't tell you how many times I have to sit myself down and say,
 Chris, what are you doing?
 Right?
 What are you saying?
 And I will tell you, when the lies are super, super strong,
 you've got to shock yourself out of the emotional side of your brain,
 get to the logic side of your brain.
 Sometimes I will be like, not get off.
 You know, a lie can be so strong after shock my brain.
 But you can't stop there.
 You've got to keep going and start pounding the truth, right?
 So things like, what are you thinking?
 Why are you doing that?
 Or why are you thinking that?
 Is this really truth?
 Is this about you?
 Is this about somebody else?
 Is it really how you want to respond?
 How do you want to conduct yourself right now?
 I will go through a barrage of questions to pound out the negativity
 in my own brain.
 Now, I've had people go, well, you're just an anomaly.
 No, I'm not.
 I had to train myself to do this.
 Right?
 You can do this too.
 You just got to catch yourself and recognize when the negative self-talk is hitting
 and then pound it.
 Battle against it.
 I have to coach myself through my thought patterns, my actions, my outcomes.
 So do you.
 Learn to hold yourself accountable for the thoughts, habits and patterns going on inside of you.
 Now, habit number two.
 You got to learn and then you got to keep learning.
 You've got to learn and you have to keep on learning.
 You can't stop.
 Leaders are learners.
 Lifelong, unending, never stopping learners.
 You're going to have to learn, keep learning and develop a hunger for knowledge and wisdom.
 That's just it.
 Right?
 And this isn't just for you guys.
 It's for your health.
 It's for the longevity of you as a leader.
 It's also for those that you lead think about this.
 King Solomon prayed this way when the Lord appeared to Solomon a dream.
 God asked what I shall give you.
 Solomon could have asked for wealth.
 He could have asked for great army.
 Could have asked for a thousand.
 Which is give me that gene in a bottle that God probably wouldn't respond very well with it.
 But here's what he said.
 In Solomon said, "Oh Lord, my God, you have made me king instead of my father."
 Instead of his father, David.
 But I am like a little child who doesn't know his way around.
 And here I am in the midst of your own chosen people.
 A nation's so great numerous, they cannot be counted.
 Give me an understanding heart so that I can govern your people well.
 And know the difference between right and wrong.
 For who by himself is able to govern this great people of yours.
 It pleases the Lord that Solomon had asked this.
 Guys, I hope that you are spending time.
 I'm just going to assume that you are, but to those who are not.
 I truly believe one of the most powerful prayers I have is Lord.
 Please give me wisdom.
 Please give me an understanding heart.
 Help me to lead the team that you've given me.
 Help me to lead the teams that you've given me.
 Help me to lead my family.
 Help me to lead my children.
 Help me to lead our Bible study group.
 Help me to lead the people that you've put in front of me.
 Give me the wisdom and the understanding heart to shepherd well.
 If you want to get out of yourself a lot last episode,
 we talked a lot about self absorption.
 One of the most powerful ways is asking God to give you understanding and wisdom.
 So that you know how to lead people well.
 Notice a true leader's heart here.
 One of humility, one of dependency.
 Yes, you should be dependent.
 It is not weakness.
 It's wisdom to depend on God.
 Right? You have to depend on God.
 It's a willingness to learn.
 So you've got to surround yourself with people who know more than you.
 And who never stop learning.
 Get yourself into a mastermind group to keep you on track.
 Find coaching, find a coach, find a process that helps you continue to grow.
 I was talking with John Maxwell, didn't interview with John Maxwell,
 Jesus, gosh, it's almost, probably almost two decades ago.
 And we were talking about not being the smartest guy in the room.
 You know, because for me, I'm always putting coaches in my life.
 It doesn't matter what it is, whether it's on God.
 I have a lot of coaches on God.
 I have a lot of coaches on different areas of business aspects.
 I've got, I have coaches on things that, you know, I used to have coaches in racing when I was racing.
 And I'm probably giving up racing formula cars.
 This whole other story because God's not calling me to that anymore.
 I don't think you called me to it in the first place, but it was something I enjoyed.
 But things that we're doing with the ridge, I have coaches that help me to learn how to do things with the land.
 I have coaches everywhere.
 I don't stop learning. Why?
 Because there's so much more God wants to show me and he wants to grow me in.
 So be smart about this.
 You've got to continue growing and learning in one of the best ways is to find quality.
 People, quality people.
 Don't find the people.
 I'm sorry. There's a lot of very popular people out there telling you that you need to go hustle your life until you lose your family.
 That's not the people to be following.
 Right?
 Find quality people that know right balances, know right information, get good quality coaches in your life.
 Number three, have a number three.
 You've got to develop skills to keep you focused.
 If you don't have discipline for focused activity, you will not be able to succeed as a leader.
 Plan in simple.
 Plan in simple.
 So blocking out certain times of the day, the week, the month, or yes, even the year in order to focus is super important.
 Taking time to focus on things that only you can do.
 You've got to create space in your day.
 Right?
 This could be the creative space you need to keep you fresh.
 It could be the pause that you need in order to catch your breath.
 It could be the dedicated time to work on tasks that require your attention.
 So I'll give an example.
 For me, I must block out certain aspects of time.
 I run 90 to nothing.
 I'm always running during, you know, doing work during the work hours during the work time, doing whatever I'm doing.
 My days are usually pretty hard and heavy, but I will block out time.
 I have to do things like one of the things I must block out time for is accounting.
 I have four businesses.
 I have to use my accounting.
 I choose to use my accounting to make decisions for all of my businesses.
 If I'm not spending that time, if I'm not blocking off that time, then how do I make the best decisions in my business?
 Right?
 And I'm somebody who's been doing this for 30 years.
 I do deep dives into my accounting.
 I understand what my accounting is telling me.
 So I have dedicated time when people know, "Cresists are available.
 I am not a high-c, but this is a time.
 This is a space that I have to channel as much as I possibly can because my brain, when I shift into doing things like accounting,
 my brain can't have distraction.
 I need to focus solely on that accounting and get that accounting done."
 So that's one of the things that I do every single morning by wife and I, or in Bible study.
 Every morning we have it blocked off.
 Believe it or not, working out.
 I do a better job working out in the morning, but that's not that space.
 Why?
 Because that's also a very strong time for me to do study.
 So every morning we get up.
 We do our coffee.
 We are in Bible study.
 We are killing it.
 And continue to do so.
 We have to grow ourselves in those ways.
 So, have a number four.
 You've got to develop your emotional intelligence.
 Now I think it's fair to generalize a bit that men tend to have more difficulty with this than women do.
 What I mean is by having an emotional IQ.
 I'm talking about the ability to acknowledge, understand, leverage and manage your own emotions in a positive way.
 For what purpose?
 What do you get out of it?
 Well, increasing your emotional intelligence will help you to reduce stress.
 It helps you to communicate effectively.
 It helps you to something that's really important empathize with others.
 I know we don't.
 I don't think a lot of people get there.
 A lot of men don't get there.
 It helps you to overcome challenges.
 And it helps you to diffuse conflict.
 Folks.
 Yes, I know there are a lot of guys out there.
 Maybe offended by that comment while the new probably don't fall into this category.
 There's a lot of guys out there that are like, oh, Chris, there's that emotional stuff again.
 Listen, it's it's finally important.
 I think it's a huge part of why I am able to teach what I teach.
 The men and our team, whether so good at doing what they're doing is because they do have high emotional IQs.
 That's a big part of it, right?
 So I think that's something that we have to do.
 You have to be more self aware.
 You have to have, you know, the ability to recognize and understand your moods and emotions and how they affect other people.
 It's super important.
 Self regulating.
 That's that's super important.
 Being in control of your impulses and moods as well as to think before acting and listen.
 Let me, is that I want you to take this on, you know, because men tend to not be as good at this stuff that you've got this nail down.
 Right?
 We all struggle with this, but being able to shift from being reactive to proactive from impulsive to responsive is huge.
 To be able to look at how you're responding and acting and regulate yourself is powerful and it is super important.
 So self aware, self regulated, super important piece of third thing is empathetic, which is your ability to put yourself in.
 So I'm going to be able to do that.
 I'm going to be able to do that.
 I'm going to be able to do that.
 I'm going to be able to do that.
 I'm going to be able to do that.
 I'm going to be able to do that.
 I'm going to be able to do that.
 I'm going to be able to do that.
 I'm going to be able to do that.
 I'm going to be able to do that.
 I'm going to be able to do that.
 I'm going to be able to do that.
 I'm going to be able to do that.
 I'm going to be able to do that.
 I'm going to be able to do that.
 I'm going to be able to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 I'm going to do that.
 This goes as much for us as leaders as it does for those who we have the privilege of leading.
 What do you need to do to educate yourself and develop yourself here a bit?
 You can start with our lesson on personality styles.
 I think it's a must.
 I think it's an absolute must.
 Go to crskr.com/door to get that information.
 I think it's one of the most powerful things.
 People have explained to us that they thought their communication was good and their team and their business.
 Then after having gone through this, they realized their communication was chaos.
 And how much it needed to be fixed.
 Have a number five.
 You've got to learn from your failures.
 Oh my gosh.
 This is big.
 It is funny to me how much people.
 I've literally had people as I talked through a failure on a stage and somebody got all praise
 God.
 What?
 And they're like, I'm just glad to know you fail.
 And it's like, are you kidding me?
 My whole business is based on failure and learning how to overcome it and then teaching people
 how to overcome it, right?
 You got to understand we all screw up.
 The problem is, is most people try to hide their failures.
 Most people don't like to recognize their failures.
 I can't tell you how many people come with your next level of life.
 Don't like to look at the negative aspects of the things that we pulled out.
 They just want to see the positive stuff and go on.
 They're like, that's the stuff I'm going to do.
 Yes, it's stuff you're going to do.
 But we've got to recognize the failure and learn from them.
 I always say, you know, failure is your greatest teacher if you're able to receive it.
 If you're able to learn from it.
 So you will fail.
 You will make mistakes.
 And you've got to learn how to learn from your failures.
 So first of all, get rid of the shame, the embarrassment, the pride associated with the
 fear of failure.
 Get it gone.
 This isn't going to serve you or your team well.
 In fact, it's only going to hold you back.
 But you cannot stay focused on being ashamed of failure.
 What we say at our business all the time is, if you're not failing, you're not doing anything.
 Our thing is, it's okay to fail as long as it's not a fatal failure.
 And as long as you don't keep making the same failure.
 So if you fail, learn what happened, how did it happen, why did it happen, how did
 it, how did he make sure it never happens again?
 Here's the five things we put in place.
 Solve it, move forward, don't keep making the same mistake.
 Now we tease out and draw attention to failure on our team.
 And it's not to ridicule and mock people.
 It's because we don't want to keep failing.
 It's that simple.
 It's about excellence, not perfection.
 And an excellent at something means learning from past mistakes and getting better for
 it.
 So in fact, you will see me calling my own self out on things that I screw up and taking responsibility
 for it, right?
 You can use these failures to teach others.
 You can lead from where you've done it wrong, not just from where you've done it right.
 As if there's any perfect model to point to, right?
 So my failures, the stuff that you're listening to, this is stuff that I've screwed up in my life
 people, praise God.
 He's guided me to how to fix these things and how to help other people.
 So for more information on this, check out episode five, seven on the difference between perfection
 and excellence.
 Now, habit number six, you've got to invest in yourself beyond leadership.
 Yep, you've heard this before.
 But let me say it again.
 Businesses what you do, say it with me, not who you are, right?
 You are more than a leader, you're a human being.
 What are your hobbies, your passions, your pursuits, other than goals inside of your business.
 You are more than just what you do, round yourself out, find a balance, find some equilibrium,
 right?
 So what do you enjoy doing?
 What excites the creative space in your brain and do more of that?
 Do you travel?
 Do you like to read?
 Do you need a vacation?
 Do you all probably need a vacation?
 Do you like to take cooking classes?
 Do you like to paint?
 Get a paintbrush on it.
 Maybe it's a house, maybe it's a painting of something.
 I don't care.
 But invest in you.
 Your life is like a vineyard.
 That lesson is available for free on our website, by the way.
 But in a vineyard, you don't just have healthy vines producing wine.
 You find flowers, trees, bees.
 It's an ecosystem.
 You do something that's not directly related to leadership, and I guarantee you it'll help
 you be a better leader.
 You know, you'll be amazed that if you just spend some, oh, Chris, I don't have time for hobbies.
 Oh, knock it off.
 You can make time for important things.
 Here's what I can tell you.
 I love when I get to work out on the ridge, and I get to get on heavy equipment, and
 I get to go move earth or take down trees or do stuff that is creating a space.
 It is life giving to me.
 I look forward to those times that I get to get out and do that.
 You can make time if it's important.
 What I figured out is if I will get away from the thing that I'm focusing so heavily on,
 then I can solve the burnout.
 If I can get creative and get some life back in me, then I'm not as burnt out as I feel like
 I am.
 So, habit number seven, you've got to constantly knock down the pedestal.
 Leaders, for whatever reason, tend to get up on a pedestal, tend to be elevated.
 Sometimes their pride feeds this cold perception or mistake, and this is a colossal mistake.
 You've got to tear down pedestals.
 You've got to cultivate humility, openness, approachability.
 You've got to stay down to earth.
 You've got to remain relatable.
 It is a terrible place.
 If what you're looking for is to be exalted and lifted up.
 And I know me in the mid-90s, that's where I was.
 When I was in working and also preaching, I felt that that's the place I needed to be.
 I needed to be on this pedestal because I watched our associate pastor just move people.
 And I can tell you, God, smacked me upside the head.
 And I think it was like 1996, I believe it was.
 And made it very clear to me.
 He made it clear if I'm going to put my people in front of you, better be about me, not you.
 It better be about what they hear, not what you say.
 I still remember those words to this day.
 It still gives me chills.
 I'm a powerful thing.
 Do not let yourself be put on.
 Don't put yourself on a pedestal for goodness sake.
 But don't let other people put you on a pedestal.
 I have this talk with our team all the time.
 And I go out of my way to avoid this kind of thing, right?
 The moment people don't think on their level, they start being guarded.
 They start disguising who they are.
 That's not helpful to me.
 And it's not helpful to the people I want to influence.
 So whether on this podcast and a next level of life or a strat playing coaching or whatever,
 I'm in the business of helping people, not setting myself up as a model of perfection for the
 love.
 There's no perfection.
 Well, besides the shoe.
 So understand that.
 I've got a little post at note on my desk that says, I'm in the boat with you that helps
 me as somebody who's a teacher, a coach, somebody who's guiding to recognize being the boat with
 the people you're helping.
 Being the boat with the people that are going through what they're going through.
 Because really, I've been in that boat before.
 I've experienced that, right?
 But never put yourself in a place where you're the one standing on the shore pointing fingers
 going, well, I must suck to be in the boat.
 Right?
 Get yourself in the boat.
 Help people out.
 So I put this stuff in a practice.
 The habits I've talked about today.
 I'm trying all the time to do better myself.
 Right?
 I'm trying to do better in these areas.
 I keep getting better at it and I would encourage you to do the same.
 So seven habits you should be doing, talk to yourself, right?
 Get control of the negative self-talk.
 Get control of the things that you're saying.
 Keep on learning.
 Have time to focus.
 Be emotionally aware.
 Learn from your mistakes and invest in yourself and family.
 Keep knocking down the past.
 Folks, that's all the time that we have for today.
 I hope you send it as hope to you all.
 As always, take this information.
 Change your leadership.
 Change your business.
 Change your life.
 And join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 (gunshot)