 [Music]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show folks.
 We have a very special guest on today.
 So if you are a leader or a business owner and we know that most of you are, this is an
 episode where you're going to want to be taking notes.
 I absolutely love having successful leaders, successful business owners on the show that
 have gone from not knowing what to do or struggles or failures or whatever in their leadership
 to incredible success because for me that's a great way for everybody to see it can be done.
 You can do this.
 You can become successful in your leadership.
 You can become successful as a business owner.
 You already know that you can, that's why you got intel leadership, but sometimes we can
 get plateaued or we can get stuck or we just don't have the answers.
 And I can tell you there's been so many folks that have come to us that have literally
 said, "I don't know what I'm doing.
 Help me."
 Show me what to do.
 Today's guest is talking with us about his company, his leadership where he failed and how
 he got to the incredible place he is today.
 It took hard work, but it is work that can be replicated and learned from.
 So even if you're not a business owner, if you're a leader of any kind, doesn't matter
 what you're leading.
 If you're leading your family and that's the only leading that you're doing.
 Guess what folks this episode is for you.
 So on our show today is Daniel Good, he is a husband.
 He is a father of four.
 He's a business owner of goods, electric heating in air.
 He is a leader.
 And now, drum roll please.
 He is part of our team as a coach.
 So please welcome to the show, Daniel Good, Daniel Good, have you on.
 Awesome and honored to be here, Chris.
 We got a long story.
 Just tell how you came to being a part of following what we do, all that kind of stuff.
 I think it really goes back to quite a few years ago, 2012, met up with you on tree leadership.
 And they said, "Chris doesn't have any time."
 Just sit down with you, but maybe you can run him down to what you did.
 And just had some great conversations in the hall.
 And of course, you had time.
 And that was huge change of trajectory from that conversation of my life and family and yours
 to come and then to progress to sitting down with coffee.
 And, Daniel Good, the first place we went to?
 Absolutely.
 For the monkey.
 So we sat down there, had some great conversations.
 We continued conversations for a little and eventually joined a program, next level, Mastermind.
 And came on to the program and it's been an awesome journey.
 I will say ahead of all of this phenomenal details that we're going to get to about the things
 that how you've taken your business to, from where it was, your leadership from where it was
 to, how successful it is today, that we've watched you become incredibly successful.
 We've watched you become incredibly successful as a leader, as a father and a husband, as a
 family man.
 We've watched you be a part of the program and guide other people to success.
 And that is something that has always stood out to us.
 So we were super excited that we could bring you on board as a coach here in what we
 do.
 We're so glad about that.
 But let's talk about the business because you are seeing phenomenal results.
 So tell us what's been going on in your business lately.
 Yeah, we've seen the business grow like 40% in sales.
 But keep per set.
 It sales, which is it's a, but you've got even bigger numbers.
 Like, 4,400% in bottom line, something like that.
 I don't know.
 I guess that's a number.
 How crazy is that?
 When you realize that we're just just to be stewards of what God is given us.
 And this is his business.
 This isn't mine.
 And it's my job to absolutely use a talent.
 He's blessed us with this honor and glory.
 And the results are points directly back to him.
 So let's roll back to 2012.
 Would you have thought then that you had the ability to have a 40% growth in sales
 in a year?
 44 100% growth in bottom line.
 Was that even something you could have thought about?
 No, just because I had a lot of issues as a leader.
 I had a lot of things to work through grow and I've become very focused on growing myself
 as a leader.
 And that was a focus back then of 2012.
 It's like, you know, what does it mean to actually have goals?
 What's the definition of goals?
 What does that mean?
 And that's where we took it from there.
 So looking back at that time, we're seeing you have incredible success.
 Looking back at that time, what was blocking growth?
 What was blocking the business?
 I was.
 As a leader, I was not leading well.
 Consensus, leadership is not leadership.
 You know, I was just too busy trying to make everybody happy.
 And that's also where my self-worth was coming from.
 My approval was coming from.
 If everybody on my team was happy then, I felt like I was being a good leader.
 And it wasn't leading people well.
 And so when people would leave, it became a real emotional time because that meant somebody
 was upset at me.
 So therefore I go spiraling downward.
 And so it was at a point where I needed to grow me as an individual to be a better leader
 and to make my team successful.
 And so it was really a life growth for me, time of starting to write personal values and goals
 and who am I.
 And that was one of the first things you helped me start working through.
 So talk about this a little bit because this is a tough one for a lot of people.
 They don't understand.
 And we work with a lot of leaders.
 You just made that comment about when you lose somebody.
 How much it impacts you?
 Because we're tanks in a heartbeat.
 Oh, I must be a failure as a leader.
 I must not have done something correct.
 And it doesn't mean that you haven't.
 I mean that's the things that we've got to learn about ourselves.
 But how much does that affect your leadership when something like that happens?
 Now it's where it at totally different place.
 And so back then it was, I took everything very personal.
 And also it was my company.
 And so I didn't have that God perspective and the fact of the way it is now.
 And so we hold everybody with an open hand.
 You know, God can bring in.
 God can take out.
 And that's okay.
 He has greater plans for us.
 And so realize it.
 It doesn't mean the business is over.
 It doesn't mean your leadership sucks.
 It could mean that there is something.
 But it doesn't mean that everything comes to a grinding halt.
 Absolutely.
 You just look at it and go, man, I wonder what God has
 forced next.
 And it's amazing how many people have moved on and God replaced them with somebody that's just
 been phenomenal.
 And so it's in his timing.
 And that has been beautiful to see.
 And just to follow him.
 But making them successful doesn't always mean making them happy.
 Yes.
 That's a funny because as we were interviewing, as you were going through this process, that
 kind of sums up a lot of the stuff in the process of you coming in and being in the role that
 you're in is like, hey, some of making you successful is actually going to hurt.
 So that's something you learned on your own.
 Talk about that.
 I see one of the first things was getting people into my life that would speak truth into
 my life, but speak truth and love and want to help me grow.
 There's a lot of people out there like to speak truth into your life, but don't really care
 about you.
 And so you don't necessarily need those people coaching you, but people see where you're at and
 how to get you unstuck and say, you know, have you considered this?
 Have you thought about this?
 And that's where it has been a blessing to have multiple coaches in my life to continually
 keep speaking in.
 So let's go back to why you started goods electrocuting in there.
 So I really enjoyed business, I grew up with an entrepreneurial dad, entrepreneurial grandma, and
 I love business, I love running a business, I did get a charge out of doing electrical work
 also, but I'm so I really wanted to do that because I enjoyed working with people and just
 I wanted to run a company and not just twist to earn, that's all day, but I enjoyed the whole
 aspects of business and then back in the early days went through E-Meth, Michael Gerber, and
 he was running a business is a different thing than knowing how to do the work.
 And that was a big eye opener to me and I go, I totally agree, I need to learn how to run a
 business better and that continued driving me back to books to seminars.
 That drove me straight on tree leadership into you.
 Now there was a time when we sat down where you were saying you're out of place where you were
 saying I need to sell the business.
 Where was the business a few years ago, where were you personally at that time?
 So where I was at that time is we were making a family, move, family change, location, and
 I just didn't think it was possible to run the business from 10 hours away.
 So I was looking to sell it and start working through that process and God had otherwise
 had other ideas in mind.
 So we, after we had gone through that process, almost the whole way, almost had it sold,
 the thing fell through and we just, we saw that this exactly what God wanted us to do.
 And what was amazing was the leaders in the business at that point, I should say the team members
 and the business at that point said, you know, we have better access to you now that you're
 not living here than when you were living here.
 And so that was a wake up call for me that I realized that I'm actually starting to work on
 the business rather than in a threat.
 And so my job was to start making them successful and yeah, to the stage still helping to run
 the business and even those 10 hours away.
 Now where was your leadership at the time?
 So was growing but still not where should be as far as focused on growing and making people
 successful at that point.
 And I didn't understand that to the depth that I did today.
 And so continue to follow you on podcasts and listen and just said, I want to know everything
 that I can possibly know in leadership because I want to be the best that I can be.
 You were talking about how your leadership was really that leadership by consensus.
 If it was leadership by consensus, what were you getting out of that leadership by consensus?
 How did that mold your leadership style?
 So what was happening with that was that where I was finding my approval in life.
 So if everybody on the team was happy, if they thought this was a good idea, so I would want to make
 I would go around to make sure everybody was happy before made a decision.
 And in all reality, what that did is just really, it puts your people in a place that
 they aren't designed to be your supposed to be a leader.
 So that means you're supposed to leave.
 And so it was not leading well.
 It was making sort of like making your children run the household for you instead of you actually
 being a dad and a home and leading.
 And so but again, when they were happy, then I thought I was a phenomenal human being.
 I think one of the things you would said is that how great you considered it like a compliment
 when they said, if you want something done, just ask Daniel to do it.
 Yeah, I did, because I'd have some other people and leaders in my life and one day I heard
 one of them say, you know, if you want something done, just ask Daniel to do it.
 And I'm like, man, that just really felt good.
 And then also in one morning I woke up and I was mad.
 No, go.
 This is a controlled tactic and that's what it was.
 And so when I recognized it, it started helping me understand what was going on.
 And so it come to that realization that just making everybody happy and doing everything that
 everybody wants is not a great way to live a fulfilling life.
 And especially since, you know, as like you pointed out, as a leader, your job to make them
 successful.
 It's your job to get them to a place.
 Leadership is not telling people what to do.
 It's not a title.
 It's guiding people to a place that they either have not been to or they wouldn't get to on
 their own.
 Talk about what it was like financially back then compared to what it's like now.
 Financially back then, it would take usually to about third quarter to break even sometime
 in the year because we would do a ton of investing and marketing at the beginning of the year
 and then we would have our down months in the beginning of the year.
 So that was a challenge.
 You know, you come September, October and it's like, yeah, we're seeing daylight.
 And it became a thing that was I just accepted it.
 Good news, that doesn't have to be the norm.
 And so now this year we have been in the black since the beginning of the year and that has
 been a huge game changer for us.
 We got a lot of that background where you were, the struggles.
 One of the things you mentioned is that in the early days of your business, you had an idea
 what a leader was.
 So here's what I want.
 All these folks that are out there listening to this and going, I can totally relate to where
 Daniel is or where he was or maybe I'm there right now or I'm struggling.
 I don't know.
 I don't know what it is to be a leader.
 What has changed and why has it changed?
 I remember back in OA waking up to the fact that why do I got to recreate the wheel?
 Why do I got to figure this out on my own?
 I don't.
 And one of the great leaders of my life was my dad.
 He was an entrepreneur and he taught me a lot about leadership but one of the big things
 I was struggling with and piece I was missing was how to relate to people and how to relate
 to team members while they were more like called employees back then.
 How do you make them successful?
 It was more so geared towards they need to make me successful because that's why I hired them
 and they should just do their work because that's what I'm paying them for.
 There are no other leaders or entrepreneurs that feel that way, not a one none.
 And so when you realize that when I set up to make them extremely successful as a team member,
 then in turn my leadership grows and also realizing that as a business owner as a leader
 one of the best thing you can do is work yourself out of a job.
 When you do that you make everybody underneath you a lot better.
 One of the things in doing that was coach told me one day said if you're struggling with
 this process of handing it off to somebody, what is it that's not on paper that they need
 to know to do this process for you?
 And so when thinking about getting somebody else to do a job that I was doing, I go, what is
 missing that I need to write down or guide them through to accomplish that?
 So I could start delegating and getting things off my plate and so I could start working
 on the business rather than in it.
 That's such a struggle when we teach killing the leadership crazy cycle, which again is
 the first lesson we push into next level of mastermind.
 One of the big pieces in there is what we call proper delegation.
 The way that most people are taught to delegate, do you kind of experience it?
 Hey, if you want something done, get Daniel to do it.
 Wait a second.
 That's not delegation at all, right?
 Because when people have that mentality, our way of delegating is here, do this, did you get
 it done?
 Is it done?
 Did you do it right?
 Okay, let me just take it back.
 And I'll just do it myself.
 And so in that concept of delegation, you're bogged down.
 You're the one who's having to do a lot of the work.
 You're doing work for other team members because they realize you'll get it done.
 The concept of setting them up for success, you know, like we say here, it's your job as a leader
 to make your team successful not the other way around, which you're pointing to that many times,
 what did you start to notice when you're writing things down when you're giving them the
 right information?
 What did you start to see?
 Well, what happens from that is they start owning it.
 Okay, and they also have the information that they need.
 So while back, somebody on a podcast somewhere, some guy gave us five points to
 think about when or to go through with setting up your team for success.
 And so I went and typed it out, laminated it and put it right in front of me.
 And I love this because people can't see this, but you're holding it up right now.
 This is something you keep with you all the time.
 You've brought it out as clients have come through for a strat plan.
 Yeah, and because I need to look at that and have that triggers in my brain going, okay,
 it's my job to make them successful.
 How can I do that?
 And the first thing says, does this make sense?
 What I've given you to do?
 Does this even make sense?
 Because depends on what personality you're speaking to.
 It might be deer and a headlight.
 You know, it's just they don't know.
 The next one is, what questions do you have?
 And just asking them that, that they actually have permission to now ask you a question.
 Right.
 Because a lot of people don't feel like they do if you don't ask or they don't want to
 sound stupid.
 Yeah.
 And because, you know, quite frankly, they're getting their self-worth from you as a leader.
 And so just saying, it opens it up and that way they can ask it in question they want.
 The third one was, what tools do you need to pull this off?
 So if you're trying to get them to do something, like do some purchasing or check in and buy
 something and they have no debit card to buy whatever you're sending them for, they're
 not going to get very far.
 Yes.
 So the fourth thing is, is there anything you need from me?
 And so, you know, they're like, well, I just need your input on, you know, recently had,
 you know, someone in the company buying a monitor for a computer.
 And so, you know, in that situation, they want to my input on which one I would buy.
 And so, sure, I gave that and helped them walk through that.
 And then how can it make you successful?
 Those are the five things.
 I think those notes, maybe don't always go through all of them, but pick a couple.
 And when you delegate somebody or give them a task, just say, hey, oh, any questions, that
 should be like number one, how can you help them be successful?
 And those are five things or five questions, easy ask in the situation.
 What did you start to see?
 So people start owning their task.
 So if you're going to micro-manage, you're going to get micro results.
 And so, people start owning it, running with it.
 And I give them freedom.
 What run are we're going to say, said, trust, but verify.
 And so, which is, that's a continual challenge.
 You know, accountability is a continual thing.
 It's not a once and done.
 But people owning it and start running things like their business.
 And so, when that happens, when that changes and the culture and the DNA of the culture starts
 changing, that is what rock my world.
 So you go from this place of not knowing what leadership really looks like, not knowing how
 to set people up for success, not knowing how to properly delegate, you know, struggles with
 finances, taking until September, just to break even.
 All of this stuff is happening.
 And you start putting in pieces, processes, things of how to lead better, how to set people up
 for success, how to delegate properly.
 All this stuff, what was the most powerful thing that you learned about leadership in that
 journey?
 Most powerful thing in that journey was owning it and taking responsibility as a leader.
 So it is my job.
 Maybe I don't know how, but it is absolutely my responsibility to learn.
 I'm not here in Bavectam and say, well, my people should ask me more questions.
 No, it's just that's ridiculous.
 And so, learning and growing.
 Because if you're not learning and growing as a leader, you know, it's a sort of like a reservoir.
 If you only have water going out, you're seeing it get dry and crusty.
 And you have to keep feeding you as a leader and growing through books, through podcasts, through seminars.
 And I just had a ferocious desire to keep learning.
 As you're implementing this stuff, as you're learning this stuff, what did that look like
 did it?
 Number one was I got a good coach in my life.
 Somebody to help me and teach me.
 Number two was surrounding myself with people that were headed in the same direction.
 You know, that is huge.
 How do you say when you go run, if you run with somebody you'll run faster?
 And it happens.
 And so, surround yourself with people that are running in the same direction as you are
 and your leadership starts growing.
 And that has been huge.
 That's why I joined, you know, the mastermind, one of those reasons is surrounding myself with
 other business leaders that are awesome and their input.
 So some folks who can actually understand where you are.
 Yeah, it's really difficult to have that kind of accountability in great input.
 If they've never let a business or if they've never been a leader.
 So having those folks that are where you are have been, folks that know what it's like to
 be in your shoes makes it that much more powerful, doesn't it?
 Absolutely.
 And it's people that are doing this day and a day out or right there.
 And coming off of that, some of the things that started learning and it came away from it and
 changed and that was number one was the culture, just being intentional with the culture.
 And setting up a culture that I really wanted in the business and owning it, being proactive
 rather than reactive.
 And one of the things was putting together who we are as a company.
 So it can be called a lot of different things.
 One, we call it core values.
 And one of the small things was expect change.
 Had people read, who moved my cheese?
 Hey, your cheese is going to get moved and it become lingo around our company.
 So when the cheese got moved, people go, oh, this is happening.
 Expect change.
 Who's company is this?
 This is God's company and that we went through that filter when making decisions in our core
 values in our company.
 What does five star look like in our company and define those things?
 I want people that have a self-employed mentality that they own what they're doing.
 And so just setting that up and that goes right into one of the next big things that we
 change was our hiring process.
 That change drastically.
 It sort of be like, yeah, you came in.
 I liked you.
 I liked how you looked.
 Do you handle yourself great?
 You know a lot about electrical?
 Great.
 We're going to hire you.
 And that was about the long and short of it.
 And then you wonder why you have issues because I'm most quite often hired for skill over
 culture and now this totally changed.
 The other thing we already talked about in that was delegation and just start leading and
 delegating well, writing processes.
 And that really helped me get out of the day to day, wrap wheel of working in the business
 rather than on it and got out of that pace of things.
 What did you do for your leadership?
 Because at that point it was just you or did you have leaders under you.
 So one of the things we also did was start a leadership team.
 The week it's set down weekly and start going through, hey, here's what we're dealing with.
 Here's maybe some small issues.
 Even all the hiring, all the big decisions I'm bringing to the table.
 That was huge for me having a leadership team because now I can make better decisions with
 more confidence.
 Because I had taxing some of the collective intelligence as you like to say.
 And just drawing on their brilliance and also helped shut my shortcomings and have them call me out.
 But it was we could make healthier and better decisions when there's greater perspective on
 a situation.
 And I think for some people it can be confusing what's different between leading by consensus
 and taxing the collective intelligence.
 Leading by consensus is do we all agree that's the thing we should do?
 Does anybody have a better idea?
 You know, right?
 And if George is unhappy, oh wait, we got to stop everything.
 We got to make George happy.
 Taxing the collective intelligence is realizing that you hired smart people and you're getting
 the information out of their brain.
 So for me, I didn't call it taxing the collective intelligence back in the 90s, but it's something
 that I learned early on when I was started in my leadership and it was kind of failing
 and I started realizing, I'm telling people what to do, that's what I was taught to do.
 So let me change this.
 We start getting their involvement and getting their ideas.
 And so I would just go around and go, give me your input.
 What do you think about this?
 And I would get sometimes great input, sometimes I wouldn't get anything.
 Many times I even already knew the answer.
 I just wanted to get that buy-in from my team members at the time.
 And so I wanted to get that, hey Chris actually cares about us and treats us with dignity.
 And he cares about our opinion.
 The great thing is, like you said, sometimes I would learn something that I didn't.
 We have some very creative thinkers in the building here that think outside the box and bring
 it up perspective that you're like, oh my gosh, I would have never gotten there.
 And so being able to tax that collective intelligence, a big part of that is gaining high
 quality perspective.
 So you set this up, taxing the collective intelligence, gaining perspective, focusing on making
 them successful, but focusing on leadership, appearance out of the business.
 What did you see?
 What did that turn into?
 What that turned into was we started making healthier decisions and they started pushing me to greater
 heights.
 And so you know, I would say guys, I think we can do this.
 That's the goals for this year and they would go, that's love.
 Okay.
 So this is phenomenal when you have your leaders pushing you to greater heights, to more sales.
 It's like, okay, maybe you're trying to double your revenue or you say, well I'm going
 to try to go by 10%.
 They go, no that's not good enough.
 It's grow by 20 or 30% this year and here's how.
 And they start walking you through how this is capable.
 And that was a really light bulb moment for me when I had a leader start pushing back on me and
 saying, no we're capable more.
 I said awesome show me how.
 And so having that also realized it was an awesome moment coming off of a quarterly initiative
 where we would sit down and say, what are we really focusing on this quarter?
 And what are the action items?
 And I had to step out of the meeting and later that day, I had my leaders come to me and
 said, we got your next week laid out.
 How you're going to set us up for success is if you go here and do this and get this done
 and have this meeting.
 I said, man, this is awesome to have leaders that own it and say, aren't scared to push back
 on you and say, you're greatest value in the businesses here.
 Now get the rest of this stuff off for your play and to get this done to help us grow.
 And it's just on the phone, talking to one of my leaders and he said, you know, I'm your
 greatest customer.
 And I go, yeah, you're right.
 My customer is not the end user, which my technicians are touching, you know, being in their
 home and fixing their electoral and heating and calling.
 But my customers are my leaders and my team.
 And having that process and that vision correct, I think, is huge for leadership.
 So let's get this straight.
 If we roll this back years ago, what we're looking at is not knowing how to lead the leading
 that you are doing is by consensus.
 The delegation process is if you need something done, Daniel will do it.
 So you're doing the heavy lifting here.
 No real growth concerns about needing to sell the business, not being able to lead it
 from where you are.
 Because if this is how it was going while you were there, what's it going to be like when you're
 10 hours away, all of these processes, you make a huge shift.
 You start next to the mastermind, the coaching, you make the huge shift of changing the culture,
 being incredibly intentional on the things that you're doing in the culture to shift the
 culture.
 So it's no longer the way it was.
 This is going to look different, guys.
 Setting up the leadership team, making sure that you're taxing the collective intelligence,
 making sure you're getting perspective, making sure you're actually delegating properly, making
 sure that you are setting up your team for success, that when you do set them up for success,
 you do all the things to make sure that they are on the same page with what success looks
 like.
 All this stuff starts happening.
 And next thing you know, you go from Daniel's doing, doing the heavy lifting to hear
 your leadership team is going, we don't want you to do any of this stuff.
 You got these things over here that if you do these, you set us up for success.
 That's sound about accurate.
 It is.
 It was, it was an awesome moment.
 And it doesn't just happen overnight.
 It takes a lot of hard work and consistency every time.
 For many years, I did not do it well because when I would go to training, I would come back
 and remold the wheel.
 You wouldn't remake it, you just remold it, remold it because, but they don't understand,
 it don't quite work for us.
 And once I woke up to that and realized that I go enough as enough, if this is what I'm
 being taught, I don't need to test any of it.
 I just need to go get it done and do it and put it in place.
 That was a huge mind shift.
 Just so that people do understand as you talk about quarterly initiatives and stuff, what
 we do in our next level of mastermind is we set yearly goals.
 And then we break that down into 90 day, quarterly initiatives and what we've been doing
 this for years.
 Not only could we accomplish a ton in 90 days, but by helping other business leaders and owners
 to do this, we would have folks that were coming back going, we did more in those 90 days
 than we did in a whole year.
 Did you experience that same change?
 Absolutely.
 I mean, when you get focused on and just day over day, what is most important thing today?
 You know, it wasn't long ago where a priority used to mean one.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 This is the first time.
 12 parties.
 And it's just, you don't get nothing done.
 And so focusing on what's number one and how to go through that.
 And so, yeah, absolutely, you look up and you go, oh my goodness, we just got this done
 in this quarter.
 That's because it's little steps by little steps.
 Yeah, so many folks get so plateaued.
 And they're like, Chris, we don't know why we're stuck.
 We don't know how to move past where we are.
 And they just don't have those tools.
 So folks, we have created a download with Daniel as a guide to the action steps he's covering
 in this episode.
 Now it will include the action steps and list of questions you need to be asking if you
 want to set your team up for success.
 You'll be able to save it to your phone or print it off to have it at your desk.
 So we'll tell you how to get to that at the end of the show.
 So Daniel, here's what I'd love for you to do.
 Tell everybody, what is the difference?
 You put this work in, what's the difference in the business then compared to the business
 now?
 So one of the big differences is back then I was only able to grow the business when I had
 time or when I found time because I'd be in the as a sales role.
 So I'd be out meeting customers or had a tool bag on out doing the work.
 And so once in a while I found a little opportunity to work on the business rather than
 in it.
 And now, now I have a team leader that has taken a lot of that over for me and is running the
 business coaching the people one-on-one and doing a phenomenal job at it.
 But raising him up and pouring into him and duplicating myself could you say into him of
 how to coach well, also getting him the training he needs.
 And that was huge of we've been pouring a ton of training into him to help him become
 who he is today.
 And so it's weird to be at the point where you realize, you have a vehicle setting into business
 that you never saw, they bought it.
 You have a team member that's on board that you've never met, never interviewed and realizing
 that it's done well because there's processes in place and people understand the vision
 and mission for the company and our core values and the people inside it are driving it.
 It's no longer me having to drive it day after day, but they're passionate about it.
 And so the business hasn't fallen apart.
 No.
 It is grown.
 The more I grew up my leader, the more the business has grown.
 So you have somebody who is now running the business for you essentially, you're still very
 much pouring into very much mentoring coaching, you know, the same type of stuff you
 have grown up in the next level.
 Mastermind is what we call one of our captains.
 You came up in to be able to help lead other leaders and business owners and did an incredible
 job.
 You're doing it at your business.
 You've grown so much by the stuff you've learned, so much of the lessons that we teach, we put
 in the program that you are captaining other leaders and business owners.
 And one of those becomes, and once I'm from inside your own company that you raised up
 to be a phenomenal leader.
 So he's becoming the energy for the business, running the business, raising up the team below
 him, making great business decisions, purchasing all kinds of fun stuff, and everything
 hasn't fallen apart.
 Absolutely not.
 It's an amazing, you know, when you put these things in place and you grow other people and
 you get start getting the culture in place that you want repeated and start growing your
 people and growing your leaders and they get passionate about it and it's amazing.
 They can take it to greater heights.
 So instead of it being all Daniel and being, you know, the business only grew if you had
 the chance to, it is way less Daniel.
 You're that leader, that mentor role in the business, just grew 40% gross, 4400% bottom line.
 That is just insane by doing that.
 You want to go back to doing it yourself.
 I'm gonna put the tool bag back on.
 It's just so awesome now seeing people's lives being changed in the business and also the
 customers' lives that we touch day after day.
 But it starts, you know, it starts with direction and leadership and so yeah, it's an awesome
 place to be and now I get an opportunity to continue teaching other people what I've learned
 and which is my passion.
 So for those people that don't know, one of the things we teach is constantly making sure that
 your team members, your leaders don't get tax-attracted.
 So for me, as I'm looking over the business at the beginning of this year, I'm looking at one
 of our areas, Joel's area and saying, if I don't do something, then in a year and a half
 from now, he's going to be tax-attracted.
 Now a lot of people listening to this might be going, why in the world are you focusing
 a year and a half from now?
 Well, that's what successful leaders do.
 And so as I'm looking at his role, I'm going, we can't go another year and a half without
 me solving something in his area, getting something off of his plate because if I do that
 A, I'm leading terribly, I'm going against the very things that I teach, but also it would
 keep us from growing.
 And so at a point where we're going through this process, I'm in prayer with God about what
 do I do? And one of the areas we look at is taking some of that coaching.
 There's only so much we can do with a person and taking some of that coaching off of Joel
 that he does inside of the next level Mastermind Group and with some of the strap-playing
 clients and your name popped up.
 I mean, it wasn't a surprise at all.
 You were absolutely killing it as a leader of other leaders, you know, leading other business
 owners of the leaders. And so we're at the next leadership live event in the spring.
 And as I walked, I was going to get all the stage and I walked by, I just put my hand on
 your shoulder and I said, hey, I'm praying for some things.
 We need to talk and have some coffee after the event.
 And I knew what I was thinking is that that could be something that you would be able to
 step in here.
 I felt strongly, you weren't supposed to not own the business, but I also felt strongly
 that you were at a place with your leadership and the leadership below you that if this was something
 God was calling you to that you had set that company up for success that you can come
 on over and do this passion.
 What is that like?
 Did you ever think that that would be something that would be possible?
 What is it like to be here doing that?
 It's an awesome opportunity and a privilege to be here.
 I loved mentoring other people, but I also got into the place where I was just happy where I was
 at and also realized that with this young as I am, you need to keep growing and learning.
 And so getting to that point going, I need to keep growing as a leader for my people and
 what was Phenamos when I brought this to the table.
 My team leader that's running the company is that's incredible.
 That would be great and my team was super excited about it because they know they're going to get
 better leadership, better mentoring.
 And so that has been an awesome journey, but it's also been empowering for them to own their
 departments, own their things that they're responsible for, the team that they're responsible
 for and also giving them that ownership and allowing them to make decisions and go with
 that.
 And so, but also mentoring them through it.
 And so it's been an awesome and incredible journey and just want to continue growing my leadership.
 There's one way, you know, they say the highest form of learning is teaching it.
 So thinking back over, what is it like to be here and to be at this place?
 I really go back to a day and this is a special day in my life.
 One two three four five day of my life.
 It was that exact day that added up to those numbers.
 I sat down and wrote about my life and quite a few years ago.
 And one of the things was I'd written down, "When I am proactive in my life, I can better
 do what God is designed me to do."
 And I have to go back to something that Todd Wilson said.
 He was a teacher and he said, "Easy is not good.
 Choose hard.
 It's not easy, but it's good."
 And doing that over years and continually choosing hard things and not going the easy route
 as brought it to a point where I'm able to do what I'm extremely passionate about is helping
 and serving others at this level.
 Now influencing the leaders that can influence their people and change lives and families.
 Yeah.
 And I love it because it's not that you weren't doing hard work in the early days.
 You just decided to go after the harder intentional focus on making the business great,
 on making the team great, on making the leadership great.
 Because of that now you get to do.
 It's not that you weren't passionate about that, but you've moved into another area that God
 has bolstered a passion in your life.
 If you could tell the leaders that are listening right now, anything.
 There's a lot of folks out there that are stuck in the leadership crisis cycle.
 Their tasks are at their overwhelmed, their stuck, their plateaued, they're trying to figure
 out how to get that business, like you've done, take it from it being all on their
 shoulders or not knowing how to get past that place to a place where there's freedom.
 You're adding this to what you're doing in life now, which most people probably aren't
 going to do.
 They're going to continue to lead their business to greater success, which again, you are doing
 up, but you have leadership in their energy in there.
 What would you tell these leaders right now that are sitting there going, what do I do,
 Daniel?
 Two things.
 There's a many more, but two things come to my mind.
 And that is one is live life intentionally, not reactively.
 Most of us go through life just reacting to everything that comes up and live life intentionally.
 And the second thing is, care less about impressing people and more impacting them.
 And so those are two things that I think really started many years ago and as, but if I could
 go back to a younger version of me, I would say, there's two things to focus on.
 That is powerful.
 Focus on impacting those around you guys.
 Hopefully this is helping you today.
 Thank you, Daniel, for joining us, my pleasure.
 And sharing this journey, this walk that you went through, which is again, so powerful and
 because of it, it's allowed you to be in a place where businesses successful.
 Things are going great.
 Things are fantastic.
 Doesn't mean they're easy.
 Like you said, it's actually hard.
 Many days it's hard.
 Many days it's hard.
 It's not like it.
 Yeah.
 So folks, again, we have put together a download for you guys.
 Now we've created this download with Daniel.
 It's a PDF that you can print off or save to your phone, summarizing action steps.
 And it's summarizing the things that we've talked about today and what you can do this week
 to get on a path to seeing the results that Daniel has in his business.
 So it's very easy to get that download.
 That is this episode and it's free.
 Go to Chrissacart.com/298 and download that sucker and get started this week.
 So again, I want to thank Daniel for being on the show and sharing advice and insights on
 his leadership and the things that he's learned and making his business successful.
 And if anyone is looking for a phenomenal company for a heating, cooling, and air, work
 and they find you Daniel.
 We're based out at clumbianohio, youngs, tannary, and you can go to goodhomecomber.com.
 Sounds good.
 Alright guys, hopefully that has helped you today.
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]