 We expect excellence, but how do we create it in our teams that that is coming up next?
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. Today we are talking about creating excellence,
 excellence especially in your teams, you as leaders. What is excellence? Why does it matter? Well,
 I think we've all experienced a lack of excellence with another company or a person.
 I know for me every Monday we have staff meeting and one of the things that I do is I make sure
 that from time to time I'm bringing in pieces that are culture lessons. A good example was
 recently we just did our first international strap plan which was down in Australia with a fantastic
 company with great people down there. Shout out to my mates down there. One of the things we
 experienced while we were at a hotel was very interesting. We had all this food brought in and we had
 somebody who was cleaning up around the room came over and went to take some of the food that
 one of the team members wanted to eat and so she just reached up said, "Oh, sorry can we
 grab that in the person taking it away had this look of like are you kidding me? You're stopping me so
 that you can have that small bit." No, no words were exchanged. We don't know what went through that
 person's mind. We don't know what they were experiencing that day. We don't know any of that. But what we
 do know is what that person's response was, wow, I can't believe you're stopping me cleaning this up
 so that you can have that piece of food. Guys, we've all experienced that type of stuff.
 We've experienced what a lack of excellence looks like, right? Now, the person that was grabbing the
 food actually apologized to the person cleaning up the room to which I looked at them and said,
 you don't need to apologize because you want that food. If this person isn't receiving this well,
 or if they're having a struggle with it, that's their problem. You don't need to apologize because
 you want the food. You paid for that food. Don't worry about it. Interestingly, a couple days
 later, the very person who was cleaning up the room took extra care of me and the team in there.
 Maybe it was something that they realized, oh, I wasn't being excellent, but they went above and beyond
 to be excellent in a couple of situations. So we've all experienced that. Unfortunately, a lot of times
 it's been us. Sometimes I are the person, right? I'm the one who's not being excellent. Sometimes
 you have to fight for a refund that you are guaranteed. You return something or you get a guarantee of a
 refund on something and then the quality of the thing is bad. You got to return it and then you have to
 fight to get this refund. Sometimes it takes you three different representatives at a company
 before you can actually get somebody who can help you in the process where you keep getting transferred
 from one department to another. It is like you just want to take the two people who keep
 transferring you back and forth. No, that's not us. You have to go back to them. Yeah, well, they said,
 I need to come to you while they're wrong. You need to go to them. Then you go back to them. No, they don't
 understand. You need to go, oh my gosh, would you actually have some sort of communication or rude staff,
 rude staff and a restaurant, rude staff and a hotel. We've all experienced that, right? Sometimes
 it might be our people doing that very thing. These are just some of the things that drive us
 crazy in day-to-day life and influence who we choose to do business with. So it's important that you take on
 an expectation of excellence. It's important that you take on a culture of excellence inside of your
 team inside of your business. If you don't, then it's possible. You might have team members that aren't
 being excellent, which can cause customers to come along and experience that and decide maybe you're
 not the people that we want to work with. So what does excellence look like in your office or in your
 team? Think about it this way. Imagine your part of a team or leading a team that shows up to work
 on time and ready to give their all every morning. They're doing high quality work. They know what's next.
 If there's a problem, it's solved incorrectly. They take personal responsibility. Everyone works together
 as a team without gossiping or blaming others. Clients are taking care of exceptionally
 well. And there is an anyone being careless about work or lacking diligence. Excellence is something so many
 business owners and leaders automatically expect from their team. But does the team know what excellence
 looks like in the first place? That is what we're going to be talking about today. Folks, this episode is
 brought to you by next-level life. Next-level life is our two-day personal discovery experience. It's a
 one-and-one personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover your root system,
 get unstuck in life and discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace. Think about it.
 What if you can wake up every morning with the clear purpose? What would it look like to have
 healthier relationships? Less conflict. Where would you be next year if you had clarity,
 purpose and peace? Probably a big difference for more you stand today. And it's possible because
 I've been where you are. Asking myself is there more than just this. There is a better way and it starts
 with next-level life. You can go to Chrissacrote.com/discovery to take the next step. If you're struggling
 with this contentment regret or not feeling good enough, which so many of you are. If you're filled with
 anxiety or your relationships are lacking, don't keep going through the motions every day. Learn how to
 move past the things robbing you of peace. Go to Chrissacrote.com/discovery and take the next step.
 Now, how to create excellence. The first thing you have to ask yourself as a leader or even as an
 individual who wants to be more excellent is what makes us think that people have been taught how to be excellent.
 Why do you think somebody should be excellent? Leaders, business owners? Why do you expect
 excellence from your team? Have you taught them? Are you sure they know what excellence looks like? Do
 you have a culture of excellence? Are you doing all the things you need to do to make sure that person
 is successful at being excellent? That's got to be the place that you start. Why do I believe that the
 people I'm paying? The people that are on my team or me as an individual? Why do I believe that I
 even know how to be excellent? I think there's a lot of people that want to be excellent. They desire
 to be excellent. They even think that they are excellent. But when they stop and look at it, what they discover is,
 actually don't know how to be excellent. The first thing we want to look at is where did they learn
 their level of excellence? If it came from other people before them like parents or teachers or former
 leaders or even friends, etc, then what makes you think that they had excellence? What was their level?
 How do we know that they know how to be excellent or teach excellence or train excellence?
 If they bring their concept of excellence to your organization, what is their concept? So many
 hires are rarely coming from a culture better than yours. You very rarely see somebody leaving a great
 organization to go to an organization that's not better than the one that they're at. You know, the
 culture is what I'm saying. So they may be bringing their concept of excellence to your organization and
 it may not actually be that great of a concept. It may not be excellent. If you're not spending
 time with your team showing them what excellence looks like and teaching them about excellence,
 then they're going to do the best that they know how to. So you can only expect the level of excellence
 from them that you know that they have. If you want them to have a greater concept of excellence or
 one that matches what you think, then you got to make sure that you're training them. You got to make
 sure that you're teaching them. You got to make sure that you're helping them to get there. Number two
 to have excellence in your business. You have to create a culture of excellence by teaching excellence.
 This is one of the things we teach in the culture lesson that we do is that you have to teach the
 very culture that you want. So when it comes to culture, let me back into culture so that you understand
 the concept of culture of excellence. To teach the kind of culture that you want, you have to actually
 discover it. What is it that we want it to look like? And then you have to teach people what it is.
 They don't know how to be excellent if you haven't taught them. They don't know how to take care of your
 clients the way that you want them to. If you have not taught them, these are things that you've got to
 teach them. When it comes to creating that culture of excellence, it doesn't matter if you sit down,
 you can write down exactly what a culture of excellence looks like. You could pull a point that
 daylights out of this thing and put in a power point. If you don't actually teach it to your team,
 if you don't actually make sure they understand what that looks like. If you don't actually help them
 to get to that place of being able to really execute on that excellence, it doesn't matter. You haven't
 changed your culture and they will continue to do the very things that they've done in the past.
 You have to point out and recognize excellence on a regular basis. Now leaders in business
 on business on earth, especially business on earth, this is something that we struggle with. We have
 no problem pointing out what people are doing wrong. If we say something wrong, we can jump on that
 pretty darn quickly. That's not how we do that. You don't treat that person that way. You don't
 talk to a client that way. Hey, this is wrong. This is wrong. This is wrong. Fix this. Do this. We don't
 have a problem helping people to see things that they're doing wrong. What we really struggle with
 is helping them to see the things that they're doing right. You need to focus on pointing out and
 recognizing the excellence that's happening. When somebody is being excellent, one of the things that we
 do in our staff meetings or individual meetings or even just standing around the kitchen,
 we will be pointing out when people are being excellent. When somebody does a great job on something,
 we share that. We make sure that we're pointing that out so that not only the person who's being
 excellent understands it and sees it and feels good about it because they've done a great job,
 but so everybody else around hears the same thing. Hey guys, this is what excellence looks like.
 This was a great job. Hey Daniel, great job in leading this team to success over in this situation.
 Hey Andrew, great job in taking care of our clients. Hey Savannah, great job in putting together
 the content. Whatever it is, we're constantly recognizing people being excellent. We're also
 helping people to see we have a ton of accountability in this business where we will also help people to see
 whether or not doing things right. That is not an issue for us. We have accountability. If you do a
 great culture of accountability in a culture of excellence, then you don't have a ton of times where you
 have to point out things going wrong because people are doing a great job. Recognize the excellence
 on a regular basis. Look for opportunities. This is your teaching. That recognition is helping
 people to see this is what excellence looks like. If you do this, then your team will start having buy-in
 as well as taking ownership in the excellence culture. As I go through and share on Monday staff meetings,
 hey guys, here's something I experienced with a vendor. Here's something I experienced at the hotel.
 When you do that, guess what you get? Buy-in. You get ownership in the excellence culture,
 which will lead to your team taking care of your customers better. That's what happens when excellence
 shows up. When you've done a great job teaching it, when you've done a phenomenal job being an
 example of it, being excellent doesn't mean you don't make mistakes. Being excellent doesn't mean you don't
 screw up. You're going to have situations. You're going to do things wrong. You're going to make mistakes.
 That's what we're talking about here. We're talking about a mindset. We're talking about your heart
 toward what you do. Being excellent is more the buy-in to a culture of we go above and beyond to
 serve to do our job incredibly well to think ahead to solve problems. When things do go around,
 we fix it as fast as we possibly can. Being excellent means that we make sure it doesn't happen
 again in the future. Weekly action steps, things you can do this week. Point out where you've seen
 excellence in your team. Point out where you've seen excellence in the building. People do what they
 are rewarded for and they will repeat what's rewarded. Find something. Find something. Find something.
 Make this a part of your routine. Weekly routine that you are finding excellence inside of the building
 and you are reporting on it that you're talking about it that you're pointing it out. Try and do it in
 staff meaning if you can because we want everybody to hear this right. But make sure that you're pointing
 it out. Spend time explaining why it's so important. The more you point this stuff out, the more you
 reward people, the more people will continue to do the same thing. Leaders. Business owners recognize
 this. The more you show them that you care about them being excellent. The more they're going to care about
 your client. Your external client. But they will also take care of your internal client. So this week
 start pointing that out. Think team mentality. If we continue to do this, we continue to take care
 of each other as well. So point out when people are taking care of the internal client. When they do
 that, point it out. Show what it's like to take care of the people that they work with on a daily basis.
 Another thing is put a process in place. So team members can point out excellence in each other.
 Let your team brag on each other. Make sure that you're continuing to share the message by allowing
 team members to speak up. So when so did this. I saw when Bailey did this taking care of a client
 during one of the next level of astromind retreat. Whatever that is, allow them the opportunity
 to speak up. Because then not only is the person seeing it pointing it out, but other people are recognizing
 Jesus, not just the leadership that sees that I'm being excellent. It's the whole team is recognizing
 it now. And what do we want to do? We want to do more of that when we see that when people care.
 And it makes sense to them that we are being excellent and they care about that. Then we want to be
 more excellent. Also point out a lack of excellence. Now we're not talking about calling out individuals
 specifically at your meetings. I would not do that. I would do that in one-on-one meetings. Now,
 you know, there are certain times you can as long as you have to be very, very, very, very careful with that.
 Because it can actually cause a loss and morale. Our meetings are so straightforward. We're
 really focused here on not losing worth in making mistakes. That team members will call out their own stuff.
 Hey guys, I screwed this up. I did this over here. Here's what I've done to fix it. Here's what I've
 done to make sure it's in the check list. That's not, you know, this shouldn't happen again. So we have
 that as a culture which is great. I do not suggest that you call out individuals in your specific meetings.
 You can call out a lack of excellence as a cultural concept. Hey, you know, again, like I use.
 I like to use experiences that I have when I go places. It's not to sit there in dog hotels. It's not to
 sit there in dog ones, specific team member at a hotel or one barista. It's to say, here's what I
 experienced. We don't do that. Here's why. How would you guys feel if you showed up at this place and
 experience that? How do you think our clients would feel if they walked in their door and they
 experienced that? So guys, we don't do this. So use examples and point that out. But also,
 if there's something that's going on inside of the business, feel free, you know, you may have to point
 that out just without pointing out specific people for all possible. So what am I trying to say here?
 Excellence can't be demanded, but it can be created. You can try and demand it all you want.
 But if people don't know how to be excellent, it doesn't matter. Show them, teach them, reward them.
 Call it out when they're not being excellent. Teach, teach, teach, teach, teach. That's your job,
 parent, teach, teach, teach excellence. Hold them accountable, don't allow them to be victims. You know,
 call it out when you need to call it out. But if you will teach excellence, if you will, if you will
 model excellence, then you will find that people will choose to be excellent. You can try and demand it all you
 want. Just not going to work. If you focus on creating excellence, if you focus on it being a part of your
 culture, and again, you've heard me say it, culture is actions and attitude. That's what it comes down to.
 If you will train it, teach it, reward it, call it out, repeat it, model it, then you will have a
 culture of excellence. When you create excellence in your culture, when you focus on what it takes to
 teach people, train people and be an example, your team will be excellent. Now folks, if you know
 somebody that needs to hear this, share it with them. And please take a couple of minutes to review
 us on iTunes. Listen, this would be if this has been helping you, here's what I ask. Would you do
 me a huge favor and just give us a review on iTunes? Those reviews help other people to find us and see what
 we're all about. And it could help them in their life and in their business as well. So thank you for
 doing that. That means a ton to us. Hopefully this is helped you today. As always, take this information,
 change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 [MUSIC PLAYING]