 The six, not just six, but the six,
 how to master the six areas of business and leadership
 to get you to your goals
 and how to stop leadership overwhelmed.
 That is coming up next.
 (upbeat music)
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show,
 where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do
 and not who you are.
 (upbeat music)
 Welcome to the show
 and happy Thanksgiving, everybody.
 Wherever you're listening to this episode,
 we wanna wish you a happy turkey day,
 whether deep frying, roasting, smoking, grilling,
 whatever you're doing, happy Thanksgiving to you and yours.
 I want to also say, how thankful I am for you guys.
 I wanna say how thankful I am that you are there
 listening to our show.
 I am thankful that you allow us into your life
 that we get to speak into you.
 We are thankful that you trust us and allow us
 to speak into your lives.
 So thank you to you guys as well.
 Today on this episode,
 we are talking about how to get to your goals
 and get rid of leadership overwhelmed.
 Now you have to ask yourself,
 do I even know what's keeping me from getting
 to my business goals?
 Some of you might be saying, Chris, I don't,
 we're so busy with Oregon.
 I haven't even been had time to set business goals.
 So maybe you're having issues like having too much
 on your plate or spending time putting out fires,
 which I know none of you ever do.
 Seeing low morale on the team, poor communication in the office,
 you might be lacking strategy and direction.
 Turn over is most likely an issue,
 or even hiring is maybe a big issue,
 not being able to find and keep the right people.
 Very little unity inside of the team.
 And a big one, not having confidence in your leadership.
 If any of that resonates with you, guess what?
 You are not alone.
 These are the things that so many leaders
 struggle with every single day,
 especially that confidence in leadership one.
 There's a lot of people that are convinced,
 oh no, I'm really confident in my leadership.
 And then when you actually dig deep,
 they go, okay, maybe there's maybe I'm not as confident as I think.
 Sometimes leaders just don't know where to focus
 to solve these issues.
 You know, so many times that we see plenty of things out there
 that are telling us, hey, buy this magic pill.
 This is going to blow your business out.
 This is going to make you tons of money.
 This is what you need to make the money.
 There's tons of people selling that.
 It doesn't help you to have a magic pill if you can't actually
 execute it, right?
 Other times, we may think we're doing really well in an area,
 but we lack the perspective to see how we could get better results.
 So mastering the six areas of leadership and business,
 will change your results.
 It'll change the results you're getting.
 The six areas are the lessons and our high-end mastermind program.
 These areas were born out of years of failing, solving the problems,
 seeing other people's failures, solving their problems,
 seeing transformation and results out of solving all of this stuff.
 And it's not just about knowing these six areas that we're going
 to talk about, but mastering them.
 The phenomenal part is that if you focus on these six areas,
 you'll gain back time in your week.
 I'm talking about 20 plus hours a week.
 Talking about seriously increasing your teams productivity
 and your bottom line as well.
 And if your business is already great,
 it will only take it to the next level.
 These six areas are absolutely not industry specific.
 So many times people will go, "Well, Chris, doesn't know my industry.
 Don't worry, don't need to.
 This is how to run a business.
 You know your industry.
 Let me teach you how to run your business better."
 So it doesn't matter if you're a business of five people or five thousand.
 We've seen the same transformation in all types of businesses.
 We've seen transformations in businesses of $100,000.
 We've seen transformations in business of $100 million.
 Phonometer transformations.
 It doesn't matter what industry you're in.
 In fact, I just took my leadership team.
 All of my leaders were out of the business for two solid weeks,
 two weeks.
 Two weeks did not have a single fire.
 Didn't have a single problem.
 If there was one who was taking care of the things that we had to deal with.
 We were so small.
 We had a couple of decisions to make.
 And that was it coming back.
 There wasn't fires to put out.
 There wasn't team members that were struggling with other team members.
 I had one of our clients goes, "So how stressful was it coming back after two weeks with all you guys out?"
 And it was like, "It wasn't.
 It wasn't stressful at all.
 We didn't have any problems."
 Why?
 Because we do this stuff.
 If you would like to know what it's like to leave your business for even a week and not have
 fires when you come back, then let me help you to master these six areas.
 Now today's episode is brought to you by next level leadership live events.
 Let me ask this question, "What is standing in the way of your business goes?
 Maybe you sprint through your days.
 Maybe you're exhausted.
 Maybe you're balancing the workload of 10 people.
 Maybe you're always putting out fires rather than having time to strategize.
 Maybe you're revenue expectations seem out of reach.
 Get the tools to solve these frustrations and lead your team to success in 2019 by joining
 us at the next level leadership live event.
 In three days, you can get the tools to accomplish your growth goals.
 Create a culture of champions.
 Control your time and change the way you do business.
 There's some of the transformations from just some other folks that have come through next
 level leadership live event gained 30 hours a week back.
 Eight thousand, 169 percent net profit increase in one year.
 46 percent gross profit increase in one year.
 25 percent team productivity increase in eight months.
 Folks, that's after implementing what we're going to teach to you.
 So we are launching the event next week.
 On Cyber Monday, you can get up to 30 percent off your entire order.
 So don't miss it.
 It's a one day flash sale.
 It ends at mid not on Monday, November 26.
 So the way you do this is go get a coupon code right now.
 Go to Chrissacordo.com/SiberMunday to get your coupon code for the event again to get 30
 percent off your entire order.
 So Chrissacordo.com/SiberMunday and get your coupon code.
 Now let's dig into mastering the six areas for business and leadership success.
 So let me list out the six areas that I want you to master.
 The first one is making stronger decisions.
 We'll Chris, I already know how to make decisions.
 Yeah, there is a lot of stuff that we help people to see when it comes to their decision-making
 process that they never knew existed.
 When folks come into Stratplan, one of the things we say on the very beginning is, hey,
 we're going to help you to see how you make decisions.
 People used to always say, oh, we know how we make decisions.
 And then like a day and a half, and it's like we had absolutely no clue that that's how we
 made decisions.
 So first area is making stronger decisions.
 The second area, killing the leadership crazy psycho guys.
 This is the number one, the number one lesson that I push for our next level of master
 my clients to start on.
 You're not even hit anything else until you get this done.
 I don't care where your leadership is.
 I don't care if you're brand spanking new or you've been leading people for 30 years.
 It does not matter.
 There is stuff in this lesson that is going to rock your world.
 Or as a friend of mine says, "Rect your face off."
 Because it is that powerful on things that people just haven't taught you or even if
 you've heard of it, you just haven't learned how to do this, how to get yourself out of
 the overwhelming the leadership crazy psycho.
 So killing leadership crazy psycho is the second area.
 The third area is creating a culture of champions.
 Not trying to force the bad culture or the bad people that you have in your business or trying
 to get them to apply to the culture that you would like to have it.
 How to create a phenomenal culture and a culture that breeds champions.
 Very number four, tackling tough conversations.
 This is huge for a lot of leaders.
 So many leaders.
 Again, I don't care if you are convinced that you are very confident in your leadership, tough
 conversations are difficult to have.
 If you feel like, "Oh, I just do it."
 Then there's things you're missing.
 This is one of the big pieces that keeps leaders from letting go of bad team members.
 This is one of the key things that keeps leaders from solving problems on the teams, from solving
 conflicts, from getting more unity on the team.
 There's just so much that's wrapped up in that area of tackling tough conversations.
 Number five, leading yourself better.
 So it is so important to learn how to lead your team.
 And again, as you've heard me say, a bajillion times, it's your job as a leader to make your
 team successful, not the other way around.
 That's what it's also your job to make you successful.
 It's your job to learn how to lead yourself better.
 So you can be more successful.
 So you can be more productive.
 So you can be a great leader for those that you're leading.
 And the number six area is eliminating fear.
 There's so much fear that leader's face.
 There's so much fear that fear of failure.
 There is not a leader who walks in these doors.
 There's not a leader that we work with that does not fear failure.
 Not one, not one.
 Not a one.
 There are some that may try to convince themselves that they don't, oh, I don't fear failing
 at all.
 Now a lot of folks that have come through our stuff no longer struggle with or are doing considerably
 better with it, but every litter deals with the fear of failure.
 Some believe it or not deal with the fear of success.
 Because being too successful or having a good solid high means that you're probably, you know,
 the other shoe is going to drop in something bad.
 It's going to happen.
 So how to eliminate fear those are the six areas.
 Now taking action on these six areas will give you time back as a leader and it will make
 your team more successful.
 The more you learn how to lead you better in all these areas, the more you learn how to gain
 this information and transfer to your team.
 The more successful your team will be the more successful you will be as a leader.
 If you've got leaders under you, the more successful they will be now.
 We have a limited time on the podcast.
 So we can't go through all six, but we will be teaching all six of those in depth, in
 depth.
 These are big, big lessons.
 So for this episode, we're only touching on one of the six areas from the event and that
 is killing the leadership crazy cycle.
 You might be in the leadership crazy cycle if you're overwhelmed.
 If you feel like you're balancing the workload of 10 people, if you're spending more time
 putting up fires than strategizing, if you're taking or come with you and feeling guilty,
 if your team members don't execute well, if you spend way less time leading your team members
 than doing stuff, you're probably stuck in the leadership crazy cycle.
 If you can't get certain tasks off of your plate because you don't either have the
 people to delegate to or when you try to delegate, it just doesn't work.
 One of the big things we teach is how to delegate properly because most leaders have not
 been taught that.
 Or if being constantly busy has become your norm.
 Folks listen, you do not have to operate this way.
 Successful leaders and entrepreneurs.
 Those who are running successful businesses control time rather than letting time control them.
 It is vitally important that you learn that so much of your time is being controlled.
 That you're not controlling.
 Well, Chris, of course I am.
 I know exactly what I don't know.
 No, no.
 Take another look at your day.
 Take another look at how your day goes.
 Take a look at how many times you get to the end of your day and you cannot tell somebody
 everything that you did in that day.
 How many times are you overwhelmed?
 How many times are you frustrated that team members aren't getting things done?
 And you've got to do it.
 How many times do you delegate something and have to bring it back?
 These are just some of the hints that you're not controlling your sets of time.
 That you're probably feeling a little out of control because of how busy you are with the
 stuff that you feel like you've got to accomplish.
 This is absolutely core to your leadership success.
 If you do not have the time to set your team up for success, you are not leading.
 You're just not.
 If you listen to the podcast with Beaumac Donald, which was a few weeks ago, we were on a
 call and he goes, Chris, I have led my team for 30 hours this week and it's exhausting.
 And I just started laughing at what I'm like, well yeah, that is exhausting.
 He goes, why have I not done this for the last few years that you told me to put this in place?
 I wish I would have done this years ago.
 So folks listen to me, getting out of the leadership crazy cycle is step number one.
 Now one of the most important things you can do as a leader is discover what shouldn't
 be on your plate and then here's the difficult part properly delegated.
 What normally happens now?
 Relocation looks like this.
 Hey, I need you to do this thing.
 Here's this thing I want to pass off to you and listen, this is really super important.
 You've got to make sure this gets done right.
 Yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy,
 Yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy
 On how to delegate properly.
 Now why is this so important?
 It's because that's how you get free to lead.
 It's one of the steps that gets you freed up and gets you out of the overwhelm and gets you
 out of the tasks that you shouldn't be doing in the first place so that you can start leading
 people to success.
 So part one is discovering why you're stuck in the cycle and knowing what shouldn't be
 on your plate.
 There's a reason that you're stuck in this cycle and at the event you'll get perspective
 so you can implement changes that last for more than a couple of weeks.
 This is stuff that you can change the way you operate your business for good.
 So think about where your time is going every single day.
 Can you account for all of your time?
 What tasks are you doing?
 Calculate the value of your time.
 So here's what I want you to do.
 I want you to just operate this formula.
 Take the amount of money that you're paid in a year.
 Go back that into what an hourly wage would be for you that you're getting paid as the leader
 in this business.
 You may already know this.
 Then I want you to compare this.
 Take that number and think about all of the tasks that you do.
 All of them and there's a thing that we do inside of the lesson that's called Love Hague
 Delgate which is just crazy powerful.
 But just think of all the tasks that you do right now.
 Then the administrative tasks that you probably aren't really thinking of because they're just
 things that you do.
 There are little things that you're constantly doing in your day.
 But there are things that you're taking care of because you haven't found the right higher
 or you're afraid somebody can't do it correctly that they're going to mess it up.
 So let me ask you, when you take a look at those tasks, what would you pay somebody to
 do this?
 If there were somebody on your team doing all of the tasks that you're doing, would you pay
 them the hourly wage that you pay yourself to do it?
 Here's the amazing answer.
 It's going to be heck no, I wouldn't.
 I would pay somebody considerably less.
 When you take a look at all of the administrative tasks and the things that you're doing
 in a day and you compare that to what you would pay somebody per hour to do those tasks,
 then guess what?
 You are being considerably overpaid for the things that you're doing because you would pay somebody
 else considerably less to do those tasks.
 But the problem is you've not learned how to get them off of your plate successfully.
 Or you've been so stuck in overwhelm that you've not even thought about getting them off of
 your plate.
 Here's what I can tell you, you're not working on the most productive stuff for you.
 What we need you to do is work on the things that are worth the hourly wage that you're
 getting paid.
 So let me just give you an example.
 Let's say you make about $80,000 a year.
 When you take a look at that wage and you ask yourself the question, would I pay somebody to
 do these tasks over here that I'm working on?
 Yes.
 Okay, what would that wage be?
 It's probably going to be more like $30,000, $35,000.
 Maybe $40,000.
 So if we can get certain things off of your plates and properly delegated, then what does that
 allow us to do with you in your time?
 It allows us to help you to focus on way bigger things, much higher level things.
 One of the things I'm constantly pushing leaders and business owners to do as they're coming
 out of Stratplan or next level Mastermind is I'm trying to get them to a place where they're
 focusing most of their time on leading people to success.
 Working on Stratplan or the strategy of their business and spending the rest of the time doing
 the things that they have to do because it's their role.
 But do you see those first two things that I really want you to focus on?
 So if you're leading a team of people and you're not a business owner, guess what?
 I want you to spend way more time getting them to success.
 Well, Chris, I don't even know how to do it.
 What would I do?
 Good question.
 If you're asking that question, we need to get this junk off your plates.
 You can learn the other lessons that we teach as well.
 So you can learn how to lead your team to success.
 But if you spend most of your time as a leader or a business owner, leading team members
 to success and focusing on the strategy of your area or if your business owner focusing on the
 strategy of the business, guess what happens?
 That's when we really start to make the team successful.
 That's when we really start to make the business successful.
 That's when we start getting the numbers that I shared with you earlier.
 The gross increase, the net profit increase, the hours back, the team productivity.
 And since we don't know how to do that stuff, we stay exactly where we are thinking that we're
 doing the right things and we miss out on all those opportunities.
 So calculate how much time you're spending leading your team to success per week.
 Is it at least 20 hours?
 Well, of course, it's not.
 Well, why not?
 There's a really high probability that you are focusing on a ton of stuff that you should not
 be doing because it's not helping you to lead other people to success.
 And more you do that, the more you duplicate you.
 The more you make your team successful, the more they accomplish, the more people you can
 add that are being successful, the more you duplicate you, which means the more you can
 grow your team, the more you can grow your business.
 So if you're not leading your team to success, who's going to, who will?
 If you don't raise them up, you'll stay stuck with the task overload on your plate.
 They will stay exactly where they are.
 And growth will be stalled.
 Think about that.
 Chew on that one for a second.
 The things holding you back from leading your team to success is actually keeping them stuck
 right where they are.
 So you're paying them, you're probably even giving raises to people who may not be growing more.
 They've been up and getting more successful.
 So at this event, you're going to learn the love hate delegate process that will show
 you exactly what tasks are draining you of time and money.
 And what you need to delegate, it's a process that gives you complete clarity of where to focus
 and list of what must come off of your plate.
 It's a lot to explain, but trust me, just start by the things I'm telling you to do right
 now when you get to the event, it's going to be 100 times bigger.
 Do the things that I'm telling you right now that will blow you away.
 When you take a look at the tasks that you're doing every single day and you calculate
 your hourly wage or your yearly salary, ask yourself that heavy question, what I pay somebody, what
 I'm paying me or if you're a leader on a team, it's still the same question.
 If I own this business, what I pay me, what I'm getting paid to do the things that I'm doing
 or what I delegate this stuff properly to somebody else and help them to be successful with
 it and then focus on much bigger things.
 By the way, if you're a leader who doesn't own the business, the more you focus on the
 very things I'm talking about, the more valuable you become.
 I am going to have much more value placed on the leader who is not stuck and bogged down in
 overwhelming tasks and can't tell me what he did today than one who's really focused on
 getting those things out there plate and spending a lot of time leading my team, whoever's
 under them to success.
 That's the person I want on my team.
 That's crazy valuable to me.
 That's showing me that you did 400 tasks today.
 That's not.
 We pay other people to do that.
 So as a leader, this increases your value by getting this done.
 Part two, properly delegating.
 This is the piece that actually gets the tasks off of your plate, not bad delegation.
 What is bad delegation?
 It's the things I talked about.
 Tasks aren't completed with excellence.
 You're over-involved in a process.
 The tasks come boom-ranging back to you because somebody didn't do it right or they didn't
 do the way you wanted to and come to find out, you know, you didn't, you probably did not set
 them up for success or explain it incredibly well.
 Of course I did.
 Sure, why did it come back?
 Proper delegation is making your team more successful at the task than you ever were.
 Yes.
 You want people to be better than you.
 You want them to be better at the thing that you're doing than you are.
 Guys, if this is a trouble spot, if as I'm saying this, you're like, no, I don't want that.
 I want to be the best to doing this.
 Well then you're stuck on you.
 You're not understanding how business works.
 Business works.
 When you make people successful, so get somebody who's better than you or train somebody
 up so that they can be better than you.
 Now again, there's a ton more that comes with this.
 Like actually discovering the right person, taking a hard look at their load of things that they're
 working on, their KRA is all that kind of stuff to make sure that you're doing it properly.
 But if you just take a look at doing this right now this week, if you're focusing on this
 week, spend time making people better than you are at the things that you're doing.
 So you can move on to bigger things and more important things.
 So for one of our clients, it was passing off their top clients to other leaders.
 This is one of the biggest things that was holding them back.
 In fact, when I asked what did hold you back, the answer was I was afraid that if I passed off
 these top clients of the whole business, that it would not be handled correctly.
 Now this is a business owner whose fear is if I pass off these top clients, they're not going
 to be handled well.
 The amazing thing that happened is when they finally did the top clients got way more attention
 than the business owner was giving them.
 Hello.
 So by passing off by doing the things that we teach, they passed off the top clients, the clients
 are more satisfied.
 The clients were more satisfied because they got more attention from the team member that this
 business owner and leader passed them off to, which did two things.
 It increased the value of the person that the clients were passed off to and it allowed the
 business owner to lead.
 So this is a process, guys.
 The first part of this process is being confident in choosing the right person to delegate
 the second part of the process is setting up the delegate T for success.
 But there's so much that can hold us back as leaders in business owners from delegating.
 That's why you'll discover at the event what's the reason behind your task saturation.
 So let me just quickly summarize again the things I'm telling you to do right now.
 Take a hard look at all the things you're doing.
 Take a hard look at how much you get paid.
 Take a hard look at how much time you're spending actually, actually be honest with you,
 leading your people to success.
 And I don't mean leading people by answering questions.
 I'm talking about helping them to be more successful with what they do.
 Take a hard look at all that stuff as the question, is it correct?
 Is it right?
 Should you be doing that?
 What would happen if we got a bunch of that stuff off your plate?
 What would happen if we delegate a propelator people?
 What would happen if we set other people up for success?
 Then take a hard look at who can you delegate to, who has the capacity, who has the
 ability.
 Gosh, there's so much to this.
 And I'm running out of time.
 Take a look at who we can properly delegate to.
 And again, I'm not going to be able to get you all the way through proper delegation.
 But that's okay.
 So get those things going right now this week.
 Do that today.
 Get that started right now to start answering some questions and help you to see just how
 tasks saturated you are, just how overwhelmed you are, just how much stuff you got on your
 plate.
 Now, here's what happens when you're free to leave.
 Now these are not my ideas.
 These are our clients results after implementing this lesson because I want you to see what
 is possible for you.
 It's not theoretical, but tangible results from business owners and leaders just like you.
 So some of the results that people have experienced by doing this gained 30 plus hours back
 to their week.
 Now spending 30 hours leading, which has increased client satisfaction, allowing for more
 hires in the bottom line of the business to grow.
 Pretty powerful.
 Another client gained 20 plus hours back a week.
 turnover dropped to 0% team productivity increased by 25%.
 Account receivable balance decreased significantly.
 The team is loving the work they do in our on fire for the mission.
 Those are just some of the results that our clients have told us from doing this.
 That's just some.
 There's a ton more.
 Killing the leadership crazy cycle is not just about prioritizing your time better and setting
 your day up for success, although you're going to learn how to do that as well.
 The thing is it's about discovering why tasks have stayed on your plate.
 The reason behind your task at your action now, it's different for different leaders and
 you must solve this to make the rest of the process and framework successful.
 Knowing how much money and time you're making or losing by doing the task that you're
 doing.
 Considering how exactly what you should be focused on.
 That's the key.
 Well, Chris, I thought I was doing all the right stuff.
 I know.
 I did the same thing back in my early days of leadership because I followed exactly the leaders
 that were before me.
 I did the same things that they did.
 So learn from somebody who's figured it out.
 Executing the proper process for delegation so things don't boomerang back to you and
 your team does them with even more excellence than you.
 Getting your time back so it's spent on the most critical tasks.
 Getting free to lead.
 So you're duplicating yourself in the team and you can grow leadership and the business.
 Getting rid of distractions from whether it's the team or if it's customers, whatever that
 is, getting rid of those distractions.
 Learning how to lead effective meetings where everyone is on the same page.
 You tax the collective intelligence and team members leave with what they need to knock
 their tasks out of the park and they do it.
 Putting an end to leaving the office overwhelmed.
 He mailing yourself from monitors at night.
 I know I used to do that too.
 Working every weekend and missing time with your family.
 Also putting it into fighting fires instead of gaining momentum where your skills best benefit
 of the business.
 It's about loving, leading or loving running a business again.
 Knowing everything is under control and your team is set up for success.
 Like I say, my leadership team was able to leave for two whole weeks and barely need to
 respond to the team with no fires.
 No problems when we came back.
 You're sweet.
 It was amazing.
 There's a reason why we're able to do that.
 There's a reason why clients are stunned when they say, "Man, what was it like coming back?"
 And I go fantastic and they're like, "Yeah, right.
 Nope.
 Literally.
 Not one single problem.
 Not one.
 Why?"
 Because none of my leadership is stuck in the leadership crazy cycle.
 Because we do the very stuff that we teach.
 So that's what killing the leadership crazy cycle is all about.
 That's what you will learn to implement at the next level leadership live event.
 So you'll get the love hate delegate framework.
 The delegation follow up, the proper delegation process, the effective team meetings,
 the closing out your day and other tools that will make you successful.
 Powerful stuff.
 Okay.
 So this is a taste of one of the six lessons we want you to have and take action on at the
 event.
 So you have confidence in your leadership.
 So your team is set up for success and you're loving what you do.
 I'm not saying that you don't love what you do right now.
 But it's amazing.
 Like I say, when you get more time back in your day to lead people to success and how
 successful they become, I'd rather you love leading than loving.
 Doing tasks, right?
 Now don't forget Monday, November 26th, Cyber Monday is the flash sale for next level leadership
 live event tickets.
 You're going to get up to 30% off your tickets.
 So don't hesitate to get your coupon code for that by going to crissacrata.com/scibermonday once
 again to get your coupon code for 30% off your entire tickets.
 Crissacrata.com/scibermonday.
 Next week, you're going to hear from business owners and leaders live.
 Don't miss this episode next Monday.
 Yes, I said Monday.
 We're dropping an episode early next week.
 So don't miss it.
 Now, if you haven't already, make sure you get subscribed.
 So you're getting the notifications when we drop new content.
 Go to iTunes or the podcast app wherever you listen and hit subscribe.
 All right, folks.
 Until next week, have a fantastic Thanksgiving.
 Love on some people who need to be loved.
 Mind yourself for the things that you are thankful for.
 And as I said at the beginning of the show, I am thankful for you as always.
 Take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 (upbeat music)
 [BLANK_AUDIO]