 What's holding you back, slowing you down, or getting you off track?
 There are adversaries that get in the way of every leader's progress.
 Today we'll take a look at one of them, procrastination, and it might just not be exactly what you think it is.
 That is coming up next.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Accordo Show, where we discuss leadership and life, and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today we're talking about something that a lot of people don't realize they experience and a lot of people do.
 A lot of people actually do know that they procrastinate.
 And we know that this is something that can absolutely set us back.
 We know it's something that can slow us down.
 We know it's something that can get us off track.
 And the truth is, it's no different when it comes to the life of a leader.
 One's leadership can experience significant setbacks, or even staying dormant way too long,
 or even maybe even detoured because of procrastination.
 We've all been there.
 Here's the thing, a lot of leaders want to go to the next level.
 They know they want to go to the next level, and a lot of them don't know what's holding them back.
 So if we were to ask them what's keeping them from breaking through that next barrier, they might not have to sit and really think for a minute.
 Some may not even be able to put their finger on it.
 So on today's episode, we're going to start examining some of those obstacles.
 Let's call them adversaries that slow progress.
 And today's topic is an especially stubborn one, procrastination.
 Now, one of the top adversaries that paralyzes leaders today is putting things off until tomorrow.
 Let me ask you a question.
 Is procrastination keeping you from moving forward?
 Now we're about to find that out, but here's what I want you to think about.
 If immediately you say in your mind, no, of course not.
 I'm constantly moving forward.
 You may be moving forward with every day, but do you have things that are not moving forward that are on your plate?
 Are there things in your leadership that are not getting accomplished that are getting delayed?
 If you do, then we need to dig into this a little bit more.
 So let's set the stage a bit here.
 We are talking about procrastination.
 An old philosopher once said, while we are post-poning life speeds by in that was Seneca.
 The modern philosopher, Faire Spueler, pushed back on this idea of it.
 And he said, life moves pretty fast.
 If you don't stop him like around once in a while, you could miss it.
 Well, both would agree that life moves fast and it keeps going with or without you.
 And that's a fact.
 But how should we try to deal with this fact?
 Should we keep up with life?
 FIE?
 Stop postponing?
 Stay current with the flow?
 Or should we try to slow down and enjoy it?
 Which approach is correct?
 Well, let me add one more perspective.
 The real life modern philosopher, Don Marquis hints at a solution with his observation.
 "Percrastination is the art of keeping up with yesterday."
 You know the type, right?
 The leader who was always behind on their work,
 delaying the inevitable, putting off important tasks.
 It's as if they're living and working yesterday.
 To sum it up, life does move fast.
 And like it or not, you've got to move with it.
 You've got to live today, not yesterday, and not put things off to tomorrow.
 Now, without having been said,
 you know, I'm a man of caveats.
 If you've listened to this show long enough, I have plenty of caveats.
 Here's the thing I want us to understand as we get into this.
 Or we're about to dive even further into this concept of procrastination.
 What I am talking about, or what I am referring to,
 is putting off the things that you need to get to.
 The things that you should get to.
 Now, I will tell you that I am somebody who absolutely believes
 that slowing down in life is a good thing.
 I'm not talking about procrastinating life.
 I'm not talking about becoming lazy.
 I'm talking about not keeping up with the hustle.
 If you've listened to me long enough, you've heard me say that I am against this theory
 that your life needs to be the hustle that you need to be running 24/7
 because there's so many important things for you to obtain in life.
 Now, without being said, you've also heard me say,
 "There are plenty of times that you do have to hustle.
 There are plenty of times when the ox is in the ditch,
 go get the ox out of the ditch.
 Bust it, go make it happen.
 I think if you're working, you should be busting it during your time of work.
 Do I think you should be working 14 hours a day?
 No, not regularly.
 Do I think that there's times that that does happen?
 Yes, but they should be few in far between.
 Sometimes it's what the start-up.
 Sometimes again, the ox is in the ditch and we got to go do something
 to get the ox out of the ditch.
 But do I think that should be your life?
 No.
 I do not think that should be your life.
 I think you should bust your butt during your work time.
 I think you should do things to make work happen.
 And then I think you should enjoy life.
 I think you should love on your family.
 I think that you should spend time getting to read or
 do things that are benefiting your mind.
 I think you should be focusing heavily on your spiritual life.
 I think that should be a big part of what you do.
 I think your kids should actually know that you remember their names because you're around.
 You know, if you're one of those people who are doing the hustle,
 then guess what?
 You don't spend a lot of time with the most important people in your life.
 You spend time because there are people telling you that you have to go chase and
 run down this elusive dream of this empire that you're going to build.
 And I'm going to tell you, if you're focusing on an empire,
 you're definitely not focusing on the kingdom of God.
 You're fighting for one or the other.
 You're either living for the kingdom of God or you're living for your own empire.
 But you cannot.
 No, ifs and their butts focus on both.
 So when you hear these people that are still out there screaming about how you need to hustle
 hustle hustle, you need to be working from three o'clock in the morning until 12 o'clock at night,
 it's stupid.
 It's ridiculous.
 That is not what you need to be doing.
 I'm not saying again.
 I'm not saying there aren't times to bust it.
 I think every day you go to work, you should bust it.
 Right? No matter what it is you do, whether it is working in your job or if there's stuff that you
 have to do at home or something, go bust it. Why not? But if you're not enjoying in living life,
 then what? No world is it all for?
 So please understand, that's my caveat. That's a different thing.
 Truth is we're probably going to be bringing more of that information.
 Maybe on another podcast and the future, another show that we may do talking about
 kind of living a rich life.
 That is not what we're talking about today.
 What we're talking about today is the thing you need to do.
 The thing you're supposed to do, the thing that has to get done and you're choosing not to do it.
 So let's kind of talk about what procrastination is not to be clear.
 This isn't really about laziness. Well, not necessarily. It really isn't.
 But procrastination is a learned behavior and it's an adversary that we can all
 contend with. It doesn't necessarily mean that you lack character or lack courage or lack
 consistency. Sometimes it's anxiety or fear. It could be mismetaging priorities.
 It could be a lot of different things. Our approach, our strategy, our habits. It could be anything.
 It could be not putting the big rocks in the jar first. You've all heard that phrase or not
 slang your giants early in the morning or not doing the most important tasks before the others.
 No matter what phrase you want to use or what metaphor you want to use,
 the concept is that we're not getting to the important things we need to get to.
 So procrastination is the action of unnecessarily and yet voluntarily delaying or postponing
 something despite knowing that there will be negative consequences for doing so. Yes, you heard me correctly.
 This is something that's unnecessary. We're not forced into it. We choose it. It's a voluntary action
 and unfortunately, unfortunately, listen to me here, it becomes a habit.
 Now, the word procrastination originated from the Latin word procrastinators. The sword is made up
 of the prefix pro, which means forward and crastiness meaning of tomorrow. So in other words,
 pushing things off until tomorrow while we live in the now, the today, right? We're still living.
 It doesn't mean that we stop living. It's not like by procrastinating. Our world came to an end.
 No, our life continues, but we've pushed things off. Now, it's often a learned and then habitual behavior.
 And this isn't just a modern problem. Humans have been procrastinating for millennia, right?
 The problem is so timeless that, in fact, the Greek philosophers like soccer, he, his or her
 Aristotle, invented a word that to describe this behavior and it is a crassia. A crassia is the
 state of acting against your better judgment. Let that sink in for a minute. It's when you do
 one thing while knowing you should do something else. A crassia manifests as procrastination,
 lack of self-discipline and mismanagement of priorities and obligation. So if you haven't felt the
 throat punch yet because you know, if you're listening to this show, we've all procrastinated
 some way shape or form, and unfortunately there's a large population out there that doesn't as
 a habit. I know I used to be one of them that used to be me in my younger life. I used to procrastinate
 for many or many reasons, hoping that by procrastinating the thing would go away or it would solve
 itself or you know it would just slowly dissipate. We've all been there. The problem is
 is that there's a lot of distress that comes from procrastination. Mental distress dis-ease
 anguish. So here, check this out. Procrastination is self-harm. That is from Dr. Pierce
 Steel and author and professor of motivational psychology at the University of Calgary. His book is called
 the procrastination equation. When we procrastinate, we're not only aware that we're avoiding
 the task in question, but also that doing so is probably a bad idea and yet we do it anyways.
 The level of self-awareness is a key part of why procrastination makes us feel so bad. Good
 and this is why we say that procrastination is essentially irrational. The professor of psychology
 at the University of Sheffield, Dr. Fuchsia Sirwa, Dr. Fuchsia, I'm sorry if that is not correct,
 but I think that's how you say your last name. It doesn't make sense to do something you know
 is going to have negative consequences. The rabbit hole goes a lot deeper as well, but I'll leave
 you with just one more tidbit before we look at some possible solutions. According to a New York
 Times article, behavioral psychology research has revealed a phenomenon called time in consistency,
 which helps explain why procrastination seems to pull us in spite of our good intentions.
 Time in consistency refers to the tendency of the human brain to value immediate rewards
 more highly than future rewards. Now there's the distance right there. We have a tendency to believe that
 by pushing off the thing that's more difficult or tough or the conversation we don't want to have or
 the thing that seems like we don't have enough energy to tackle it today. Then our brain tells us that
 we have a greater reward right now, right now, immediately. Then having to deal with a future
 reward of having it done and not having to worry about it. Now I will also say this,
 there's a lot of folks that believe, well, yeah, but if I get it done now, that just means that there's
 going to be something else. I understand, I hear you, maybe we need to prioritize better.
 But understand that procrastination with the understanding that you may have to fill that time in the
 future with something else is a bad reason to procrastinate. It may mean that you need to prioritize
 much better, but just because you did the tough thing right now does not mean that there's going to be
 seven more tough things immediately after you get it done. The truth is, and I think we all know this
 from the times that we do not procrastinate. We actually knock something out, we actually feel more
 at ease. The reward is great on the other side of knocking something out. But our brain tells us
 that the immediate reward is going to be way greater. If we just push this off for a while,
 we're going to feel much better about ourselves right now instead. And the truth is,
 that's not the truth. Now, I'm not saying it's always that way. Sometimes, you know, there's many
 times I have got a ton of things going on in my life right now. And sometimes I have to prioritize
 not doing something right now because I'm dealing with something else. Or there's other times I come
 off of dealing with something and I'm just white. And it's the last time for me to do something.
 In fact, as I speak right now, I'm recording this at five o'clock in the morning because I had some
 family issues, some family emergencies that one of my family members is dealing with, that I had to
 be a part of that I had to go take care of. And it was way more important than cutting this specific episode.
 However, this is still very important for me to do. This is still something I need to get done.
 This is something that helps you that helps us all to understand how to grow. So it still needs to be
 done. So I find the time and I put it in and I get it done. I knock it out. But what if I just
 procrastinated cutting episodes period? What if I didn't just do the show and I just, you know,
 weighted and weighted and weighted and weighted, then we wouldn't have a show and we wouldn't have
 followers. And we wouldn't have people growing and we wouldn't have people telling us that they've
 been able to grow a business just by listening to the show. We wouldn't be helping people with their lives.
 So I'm not saying that there isn't things in your life that can be more important in the moment.
 I completely understand. I get it. Make sure that you make in the right decisions. What we're talking
 about again today is the choice of pushing off something today or right now because we feel like
 we'll feel better about it in the moment and our brain tells us that that is more important right now. So we
 procrastinate as a form of short term mood repair. It's self-medication, man. It is a fix. So what do we do
 about it? Well, procrastination is habitual. So we've got to address the habit. Number one, it starts with
 acknowledgement and self-awareness. If we can't be honest with ourselves and others that we're stuck in a rut,
 then we'll never get out of said rut. It's just normal. It's what we want. It feels good for the
 moment. So we'll keep doing it. That's a bad idea. We've got to self-examine here. Where am I avoiding
 things that are daunting or difficult to do? Where am I refusing to deal with the inevitable? This is something
 we have to be very aware of. We've got to really evaluate ourselves. We've got to really ask this
 question. I would say, after this episode, find some time to sit down and ask yourself, where do you
 procrastinate? Right now we're just focusing on leadership. My goodness, take a look at your whole life.
 Where are other things that you put off and you don't get it done because you're convinced that
 not doing so is more important that you're convinced that not doing so is actually going to make you feel
 better about yourself. Number two, we've got to get real by dealing with today. So create, present,
 rewards now for future goals later. Create actions and routines now today that emphasize an even reward
 taking control of your present reality. In order, in order to enjoy your future goal.
 What does that look like? Well, here are a few examples, simple examples. If I get out of bed now
 and avoid hitting this news button, then I'll be on time for my appointment and won't suffer
 the stress of running late all day. #winning. So let's set here. So that's a lot of people don't
 understand. Every time you hit that news button, you're actually making yourself more tired.
 I learned this cheese 25, 30 years ago, probably 30 years ago, when I learned that that
 news button was actually making my day worse. And somebody taught me to put the alarm across the room
 so that when I had to get up, I had to hit it. I'm up. Stay up. Get up. Go do stuff, right?
 For the last almost 20 years, 15 years, probably 15 plus. I haven't used an alarm clock.
 I don't use an alarm. I don't need an alarm clock. I get up. I wake up. I get going about my
 day. I don't have a snooze button that I have to hit. In fact, I don't stay up until crazy late
 either. I go to bed. Now, my wife will contest that I don't go to bed when I should. I will still
 fight like a little baby because I don't want to go to bed. But I still go to bed way earlier than I
 used to than my younger days. Why? Because I've realized I actually have energy. I do so much better
 when I get quality sleep. Everybody in the world is screaming, you need better sleep. Get better
 sleep and yet it's something that we keep fighting. So here's what you do. If I don't get out of bed right
 now, the alarm is gone off. I need to get out of bed. If I don't, then hashtag consequences.
 So if I recognize that I can do something about my waking habits, then I can actually create
 better habits. Here's another thing. If I take care of this monster task that I've been putting
 off, then I'll get it over with and be able to focus on other things and other people who need my time and
 attention. If I don't tackle this task today, it's going to keep stressing me out and sucking my
 energy. We've all experienced that. We all know it's so funny. We tell ourselves that, man, I don't
 want to do this task right now because it's going to be so daunting and yet then I still have so much
 other stuff to do. Man, when you knock that task out, you feel so much better. You feel so much better
 that you've got it done and then the truth is you're usually not bombarded with really difficult stuff
 right afterwards, right? So these may just seem like baby steps, but they are steps and they are
 in the right direction. You're creating new patterns, courage, commitment, consistency. These are
 things you're looking to create. The cool thing about baby steps is they too eventually become habitual
 with repetition. So learning to tackle the big tasks early on is a healthy and energy replenishing
 discipline. So get it done. Number three, put in healthy metrics and mechanisms. Yes, we need that
 self knowledge. We talked about in point one, right? We also need the healthy rewards and incentives
 that help us to get unstuck in point number two. But we also need to add the metrics and mechanisms
 that will keep us healthy. Accountability. We use tools like Asana, teen meetings and mastermind groups.
 Right? What are the tools that you need to put in place to keep you on track? Who are the people
 who'll kick you in the butt whenever you're behind? That's a fun phrase. What are the habits that
 you'll need to keep your priorities from slipping? The truth is, at the end of the day, you're not
 filling anybody by procrastinating, by not tackling what you should do today, right? However,
 it's very possible that you're filling yourself. The famous physicists Richard Feynman said,
 "The first principle is not to fool yourself and you're the easiest person to fool. Don't let
 that be you. Don't put off till tomorrow what you should be doing today. Make the choice. Get it done.
 Prioritize. Make sure you get the right priorities. Find out what the toughest things are and usually
 tackle those things first. Get those things knocked out and then everything else is easier."
 Well, folks, that's all the time we have for today. I really hope this information is helped you.
 I know that this is something that a mass number of people are dealing with. And definitely something
 that was a big part of my younger years. That procrastination problem is a big problem.
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]