 [Music]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show folks. Today we have a very special guest, Cindy Taylor, is a wife.
 A wife, a mom. She's a leader. She's a business owner. She's a licensed occupational therapist.
 And she's an implementer like crazy. She's an implementer. The things that she gets done in her business at the rate she does is incredible to watch.
 She owns Carolina Therapy Connection, which works with children and teens to reach their goals by collaborating with families to create the best therapeutic plans and care.
 And they do a phenomenal job. So I wanted to bring her on the show because there is a lot to learn from Cindy.
 In the last quarter, listen to this, in the last quarter, she has turned her business and leadership around.
 Her team is unified in working toward a shared mission and goal feeling like they are part of something bigger than themselves.
 The team is happier and more motivated. The efficiency in the business has increased dramatically with the systems and processes she's put in place, including holding people accountable, which, by the way,
 most businesses are not doing a good job with that. And she's out of the leadership crazy cycle. She's trusting her team and delegating more and having time to enjoy our family and enjoying going to work.
 So please welcome to the show, Cindy Taylor, Cindy welcome.
 Hey Chris, thanks so much for having me on and I really appreciate it.
 It is so good to have you on and I'm glad we can do this while right now there's an hurricane head in your way.
 So we've got you on the way to the here.
 Yeah, we're glad that you're still here too. We've got you on the phone praying that everything goes well with that.
 You are killing it in your business. So I just want you to share tell us a little bit more about your business. I love your Instagram, the kids and the stuff you guys do is just, I love it. I'm always liking those picks.
 But give us a little overview of how you guys get started and where you are now.
 Yeah, sure. So we, I got started about eight years ago. Actually, we just celebrated our eight birthday September, Marks eight years for us.
 We've provided occupational, physical and speech therapy services.
 We actually focus on pediatric, but now we've expanded services to adults as well.
 So we are just rocking around. We've got a clinic in Greenville, North Carolina and we do home visits. We go out into the community. We serve some schools in the area as well.
 It always looks like you guys are having a blast. Like it looks like you guys have a lot of fun there.
 We do. We totally do. So that's something that has definitely changed now.
 And out of this leadership crazy, like all we've been implementing some of these things that we've learned just three year lessons.
 But one thing that we've been doing a lot lately is just celebrating. That's one of our core values now is celebrating small victories.
 And it's just fun. We just have such a good time. And it shows our kids love coming there. Our team is amazing.
 It's awesome. I love it. So you guys started expanding. You made some new hires. And what happened? What happened in the business and for you as a leader?
 So, yes. So, well, during the time that I really deep into this crazy cycle that I was actually introduced to you guys through a mutual friend.
 We were in the midst of some huge changes happening at our clinic. I had just hired three new therapists all at the same time.
 We switched to a different electronic health record system. We moved all of our healing in-house and got rid of our outside building HD space.
 And the meantime, I was just hired an office director and new building specialist. All this time we're starting construction to expand our clinic space.
 So, it was chaotic to say the least. It was just, I was being pulled in a million different directions trying to do every job in the business.
 Act as a therapist with my own case load. Help the other therapists by solving their problems.
 You're just really uneasy feeling in the clinic. Amongst our team. We were just all going in different directions at the same time while we're expanding our space and it's crazy.
 So, what did your operations or your processes? What did that look like at that time?
 So, we really didn't have anything set in stunts. And we were kind of all spline by the sea of our pants, really.
 We were making new hires without a good training program. We were, like I said before, I had hired a new office director.
 And I just didn't have anything set in stunts that was his job description. I mean, we were just kind of all kind of going through the motions.
 And like I said, all kind of going different directions. We really didn't have any set in stunts policies and procedures that we were all following.
 Definitely not a mission of vision and core values either that we were all basing our work around.
 So definitely you would say there's a decent amount of frustration some overwhelmed.
 Oh for sure absolutely.
 Yeah, that's what we experienced for the folks that don't know when we're talking about the leadership crazy cycle.
 There's so much overwhelmed there's frustration, there's lack of trust, there's your teams not as productive, there's struggles with leadership and communication.
 That is what we call the leadership crazy cycle.
 Some of our other leaders and business owners describe it as like exhausting, stressful, not productive constantly spending your wills all that kind of stuff.
 How would you describe what's the Cindy Taylor definition of the leadership crazy cycle? What does that phrase mean to you?
 Well for me, I would say exactly that. I mean it was just a crazy cycle.
 It took control of my entire life and all of my time when you're kind of caught up in like this endless list of taps and you just lack of clear direction.
 It's like having tunnel vision and getting wrapped up with working in the business instead of on the business.
 That's kind of how I would describe it.
 And the thing is that again, we call it the leadership crazy cycle because this is what the leadership is focused on.
 And for me at your level, everything that you're doing at that time wearing all those hats keeps you from being productive because you should be leading the team to success.
 Using the gifts and talents that you have as well and not spending so much time bogged down in the junk.
 But that's exactly what we've been trying to do.
 That's what we've been taught. You know, the leaders that we had before us, that's how they did things.
 Is that process of doing so much that you're overwhelmed under a mountain of tasks and you get stuck and for some folks that's where they gain their identity is being stuck in all those tasks or their security or their worth because they tell themselves that I'm doing so much stuff.
 That I must be good. I must be productive. I must be worth something.
 But instead you end up in this crazy cycle working 14 and 16 hour days.
 I never getting out of that rat wheel. You get things done, but they're just not getting done as well.
 And I'm assuming that because you're stressed out, your team is stressed out and probably stuck in task saturation as well.
 Oh gosh, absolutely.
 Everybody, basically, like you said, my guy was comprised of just making lists of things to do, checking them off and but basically doing every job in the business.
 It wasn't me doing something that a leader should be doing. I was just not leading at all.
 I wasn't taking care of my team. I really wasn't even taking care of myself at that time. So it was tough.
 What were your biggest frustrations as a leader when you were in the leadership crazy cycle? So we know that you're wearing a lot of hats and everything.
 But is there something that you were just like this is driving me nuts?
 Honestly, I think the main thing for me was the fact that because we had done so many things and took a short period of time all that one, I just had so much on my plate.
 I just bit off way more than I can chew. I was trying to train new employees and get them doing what they were supposed to do and maybe even know what they were supposed to do at that point.
 And so I'm trying to train them and getting frustrated. It was been because they don't understand, but I really wasn't teasing them the way they should be taught.
 That was frustrating for me just feeling like I have to wear everything I'll have and not trusting my team members. That was the biggest struggle for me.
 So what drove you to that decision where you're like, okay, I know that I need to change. There's something I need to do. I need to change it.
 It's either got to be the business, it's got to be leadership, it's got to be something. What drove you to that?
 So I think there were two things that really made me realize, okay, I've got to change something.
 I think number one was realizing that I needed to hold myself accountable. I had all of these great tools from all of your lessons and even the next level leadership live event.
 It just sounded so amazing to me, but nothing was going to change unless I started implementing some of these lessons.
 So I think that was the first thing just realizing, okay, you need to hold yourself accountable.
 This is not going to change unless you start just making these changes. It would have a process and once that took a ton of work upfront, but it's now paying off.
 And I think the second thing the other difference for me was just to trust my team.
 I just got to the point where I said, you know what, I need to trust these people. I heard them for a reason.
 I need to trust them to be able to do what they need to do and teach them how to do it and check in with them and hold them accountable.
 So those are the two things that really changed for me.
 So folks, I hope you're hearing this because killing the leadership crazy cycle is one of the most important lessons that we teach or our next level of match my clients.
 It's the first thing that we push into the program. Now this year, we're also teaching it somewhere else.
 One of our focuses that we're going to be doing in depth lesson on at this year's next level of leadership live event.
 This is the place we taught it in 2016 and it made such an impact on businesses that it became the starting place for the next level of match my program.
 Like you just said, it's tough. It's not easy. There's a lot to it. I love it when folks are killing it with this process because yep, it takes a lot to put in.
 You're already busy. You're in the leadership crazy cycle and we're giving you this thing to say, hey, if you will do this extra work, it'll actually be easier on the other side.
 So what are the biggest wins since you started implementing the killing the leadership crazy cycle Ben?
 Now we have a clear mission statement, our vision statement, core values. I have so much time now to be with our leadership team and all of our team members.
 We developed this amazing mission vision core values were teaching them throughout the day.
 Our relationships have deep ends. We just worked so much fun together. Really.
 We all have come together and we really share these core values. They just mean so much to us implementing this new mission statement even to our families and the kiddos we serve just as much to all of us.
 I think that has been a huge game changer for us. The mission statement, good you know core values for sure.
 You guys have direction. You know what your purpose is, you know where your head did you know what you believe. And for you, you've got you've been able to get I love watching y'all's business.
 I'm sure you're a go-getter before this, but you're definitely a go-getter as we get to see you and watching things like I say through social media. It just looks like it's so much fun.
 But the thing that I want leaders to hear is you go from a mountain of stuff to the comet you just said, I have so much time to spend with my leaders, which is exactly where you need to be is leading leaders.
 I'm assuming that carries on over into your family as well. Oh gosh, absolutely. Well before hand I was working like crazy. I wouldn't go anywhere without my computer or my phone answering emails or doing something.
 I was going to the gym on the treadmill with my phone trying to get emails answered. It was crazy. And I really took a toll on my family and my kids. We have twins with their four and a half and you know it was not fair to them because at night I was just rushing to try and get them to bed so that way I could start working and then not finishing till late and get up early in the morning and do it all again.
 So it was just never ending. And now I just have more time to spend with them with my kids, my family. I enjoy my night, now my weekend.
 We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a couple of weeks of time. We have a
 I'm going to go to bed and get them to bed and get them to bed. I'm going to go to bed and get them to bed and get them to bed. I'm going to bed and get them to bed and get them to bed.
 And I think that has definitely made a huge difference for my team members too. So now they know what their expected to do.
 It's not just kind of a guessing game to them. And we have it written down. We have the KRAs and the KPIs. That has been a huge accomplishment and game changer for us.
 So many leaders like you just said, now they know what it looks like to do the thing they're supposed to do because so many leaders get in this place where they're so overwhelmed and delegation is I need you to do that.
 You're not doing it correctly. Why aren't you doing it correctly? All right, let me just go ahead and take it back.
 I'm going to go away. There isn't the time to train well. There isn't even the understanding of what quality accountability looks like because so many people always say this is people come through program is that, you know, if you come from like a church background or something like that, then accountability has a really negative connotation to you.
 Because it's usually somebody beating you over the head with a Bible telling you how horrible you are and how wrong you are and that is absolutely not accountability. It's helping people be successful.
 But what they're supposed to be doing, which you can't do if you're stuck in the leadership crazy cycle.
 The part that you're talking about right now is what we call love hey delegate and that's a big part of what we teach in this lesson.
 So it's taking you time to discover all the things you're doing and the things you should be and you shouldn't be. Then delegating those properly, which people don't know how to do that as well.
 A lot. But then having the accountability. So you're actually giving things to team members who are probably test saturated at the time or struggling because they don't know what accountability looks like.
 They don't know what winning looks like for them. And by putting all of that in place, it relieves stress on them. Is that some pretty accurate.
 Absolutely. Absolutely. If they love it, when we roll them out, all of our carers to everybody, they love it. They ate it out. They were like, this is great. This is perfect. But now I know exactly what my expectations are.
 And there's ways to measure it. So we can sit down and say, okay, have you met these goals? If not, okay, what do we need to do to change? What can I help you with?
 What's not working to help you achieve these? So it just gives us more structure and direction like you said.
 There's a ton of things that you've shared here. There's anything that surprised you. Like is there anything that on the other side you're like, oh, wow. I didn't realize that we're really good at doing this or wow.
 That free to stop to do these processes or there's anything that surprised you.
 What surprised me the most, honestly, was how confident people really are is I was just not trusting anybody. I don't know why I felt like I have to do everything.
 I would give them a task and feel like, okay, okay, do you need my help? What should I do this? I don't know. Yeah, I'll go ahead and do it for you.
 I think they really just trusting them and developing just deeper relationships with them. It just has opened my eyes to a whole new world. I mean, really,
 I just become more personable with the team and they've just become more family like to me. So I think that was huge.
 I would love to be able to monetize the difference. There's so many leaders that do not realize the very thing that you just said, you hired competent people.
 When you hired them, you didn't hire incompetent people and figure, well, I just need a warm body and the seat. You hired them because you believed they were competent. You believed they could do the job.
 But they came from the same background as you did. You know, the rest of us, we come from bad leadership or bad training or people who don't know how to do this stuff.
 And so the amount of productivity, I would love to be able to put a number on that and say, wow, once we did this stuff, we put all these things in place.
 Now our people are this productive because just by realizing the surprise of how competent they actually are means that they've actually had to become incredibly more productive. Do you agree with that?
 Yeah, I wasn't so funny about the whole entire thing. Is that before I was constantly looking at everybody's numbers. Why are you hitting productivity numbers? What's going on with the schedule? Why are people with canceling?
 How many notions do you have? Get these kids in. I was constantly focused on the number aspect of it.
 But when I actually took a step back and realized, okay, let's take care of these people. Let's check in with them. Truly check in with them and say, hey, I am here for you. I am on your side.
 That has made all the difference because now they want to achieve. I mean, they want to be successful. It was totally different. This is kind of what changed my perspective about it to because, you know, I thought, you know, your team is what makes you successful.
 And now it's totally the other way around. I need to make them successful. I need to set them up. So that way they are able to do what they do best. And it just shows they are now way more productive.
 And that is what I think is the best way to do what they do. And that is what I think is the best way to do what they do.
 What advice would you give them if they are stuck in this leadership crazy cycle? The first thing I would say and the most important thing is you are definitely not alone. This is extremely common with this is known as leaders in general.
 I did not realize that myself. I thought I would be only one and the world is going through this. I felt really totally defeated. I kept thinking to myself, I can't believe I would let my business get this way.
 I did not take care of my team this way. So I would definitely say you are not alone. This is not something that everybody learned. I didn't. I was just kind of thrown into it. So some advice I would give is to really stick down and set aside time to really gain perspective on where you are spending most of your time. What are you doing throughout the day?
 This is one of the very first steps that I took and it was just extremely eye-opening for me. And then it's important to just go through the steps of that love and delegate process that you are talking about.
 And this is really going to help you organize your time better and spend more time working on the business instead of in it.
 And then just implementing these strategies and holding yourself and your team accountable is key.
 So powerful. And it's so funny what you said about you're not alone. A lot of times when we add new teams to the next level of mass to my program, we bring them on the retreats.
 We will bring something up and I will ask them, hey, how many of you in here think that you're the only ones who struggle with this?
 And it is hilarious because the newbies all raise their hands and all the veterans are laughing because they were the ones raising their hands, you know, the last time around.
 Because we do believe we get in this place. That's what I love about the time that all the leaders and the owners spend together at the event is because we think that we're the only ones going through this.
 And we think that, you know, well, we don't want to show that we're struggling with this. We've got to show you know a good face. We've got this. We're strong. We're great.
 To see that somebody else even with successful businesses.
 It's not like the only people who struggle with this are people who don't have a bottom line.
 People making tons of money. Lots of net profit struggle with the same exact problems.
 And it's the thing holding them back. So I love that you shared that knowing what you know now.
 And seeing the success that you've seen, which is still a relatively short time.
 What advice would you give yourself two, three years ago?
 I think the biggest thing I would tell myself would be to would definitely to care for and support my team to build them up and focus on making them successful.
 Because when your team is successful, it shows in their work and their interactions with our kids and the families we serve.
 And that's the main thing. I mean, I was so focused on our customers making them happy, but really it's your team.
 Because when your team is happy, then they produce a good product. You know, they're they're products. They're service.
 And then everybody is happy. So I would take focus on my team more. And I would also say to just take it one day at a time. Don't be so hard on yourself.
 This too shall pass.
 That is so true. Because we can't want to all of a sudden. What's the answer right now? I need to know the what is the answer right now. What do I do today?
 And unfortunately, the quick answers don't give a long-term solution. So powerful stuff. Folks weekly action items. Now listen, the leadership crazy cycle will keep you.
 Your business and your team stock. That's what you're hearing Cindy say today. And you've probably experienced that. You're probably experiencing that right now.
 The beautiful thing is you don't have to stay there. So I want you to envision where you want your leadership or your business to be.
 You can get there. But you have to get out of the leadership crazy cycle. Now if you listened to episode 292, you heard Bo who is again a veteran of the program.
 And if you just heard how Cindy got out of this leadership crazy cycle, it's impressive the timeframe.
 It's impressive what Bo's been able to do. It's impressive what a lot of these leaders have been able to accomplish because they had the tool to do it.
 So you can hear this lesson. You can learn it. You can deep dive into it and take action at the next level leadership live event. We would love to see you there and see the same result for guardless of where you are.
 It doesn't matter where you are in your leadership. It really is something you can implement at any time. And for those of you that are just starting out.
 There's nothing better than to make sure you're doing it right before you get stuck like the rest of us did. So folks, you can go to crissacardo.com/events to get your tickets two day.
 Don't keep holding yourself back. Get the stuff you need to get out of that change your leadership. It will change your family. It'll change the stress of your team.
 All the stuff that you've been hearing Cindy talk about today. Cindy, thank you so much for being on the show and sharing your advice and insights on the leadership crazy cycle.
 I know that has meant a lot to a lot of people.
 Thank you so much for having me. It was a lot of fun and I just love your team. I love you guys. You are amazing.
 We love having you as part of the program. We love seeing you. We love getting to hang out with you all the time.
 You're just always a great person to talk with. We're going to be praying for you guys that everything is safe with the hurricane coming through.
 So you definitely have our prayers on that. If somebody is looking for a fantastic place for occupational speech, physical therapy for kids and teens and adults now, where can they find you?
 So our website is Carolina.
 We're on Facebook and Instagram. We're all over social media.
 Once again, Cindy, I really appreciate it. Thanks for coming on and doing this.
 Thank you, Chris.
 Well, folks, there you go. Hopefully that helps you. You know our goal. Our goal is to get you the information that changes your life.
 The stuff that helps you to solve the issues, the struggles. It's not just about getting your leadership right.
 Your leadership affects and impacts every part of your business and your life.
 So hopefully this has helped you today. Hopefully you're going to join us at the next level leadership live event.
 As always, take this information. Change your leadership. Change your business. Change your life.
 Join us at the event. Join us on the next episode.
 (upbeat music)
 (gunshot)