 As a business leader, how much are you willing to sacrifice so that your business can grow?
 Is that enough?
 Maybe even too much?
 Here are three things leaders need to do to make sure they're not over investing in their
 business.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover
 that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Sometimes we think that growth is a must.
 I've even set up before if you're not growing, you're dying.
 It's true to a certain extent, but let me ask you a qualifying question.
 What if growing your business is actually killing you or your business in the process?
 As we get into this episode, I want to kind of talk through and give some examples
 of some things that we have been helping people for a long time.
 Having decades have been helping people to really take a hard look at is what they're doing worth
 it.
 And I will tell you this, as you hear people say, growth growth growth, it's such a must.
 You have to do it.
 You've got to keep growing.
 I'm going to tell you that growth is a must to an extent.
 You definitely have to outpace inflation.
 You've definitely got to outpace your expenses.
 You definitely have to be putting more money on the bottom line, right?
 At some point, some way, somehow, right?
 If you continue to make the same exact amount of money, but you keep giving team members
 raises, eventually you're not going to have any money left.
 There's things that are absolute obvious pieces that we need to be looking at, but the part
 that I'm talking about today is not that.
 It's not growth because growth is smart.
 It's not growth because we have to outpace expense.
 Those are things that you need to do no matter what, right?
 The part that I'm talking about is that you must continue to grow like crazy as much as you
 possibly can because everybody else is doing it.
 The comparing yourself to the businesses that are making more money than you are, but are
 in a different industry than you are.
 The comparing yourself to somebody who's been doing it 10 years longer than you and definitely
 should be further out ahead of you than you are, but still you compare yourself to them.
 This concept that people are telling you that you need to put in multiple locations and they've
 never done that themselves.
 Oh, it's so genius to be listening to the person who's never run a business before telling you
 how you have to run a business.
 Or just the idea that you have, that you need to add locations that you need to work more
 hours that you need to put more money to the top line in the bottom line, all of these things
 really, really need to be examined.
 And I will tell you, I have helped many leaders back off of the ledge or those that have actually
 jumped off to get them to safe ground afterwards by making bad mistakes because of this ridiculous
 concept that growth is an absolute must.
 You must keep growing, you must keep adding, you must keep serving more people, more and
 more and more without counting the cost.
 So some examples would be when you have somebody who continues to go after more and more revenue,
 adding more team members, adding more salespeople, adding more clients, and yet their net profit
 decreases.
 This is a common thing that we see with businesses that are absolutely certain that more money
 is the smart way to go, that that is the growth that they need to get to.
 I can't tell you how many businesses that I've helped to realize that they actually slow
 down and didn't go after as much as they were going after, they would actually make more net
 profit.
 They would put more money in their bank account, but the concept that everybody out there talks
 about his butt gap, but you need to be growing your top line.
 Why?
 If you could actually make more money on the bottom line by not going after more business, why
 are you so concerned with the top line number?
 Well, but that's the one we base so many things on.
 No, that's the one that people who don't know how to calculate base so many things on.
 That's the one who for people who can't do math.
 That's the number they base things on.
 Understand this.
 If you can be more profitable with less top line gross revenues, then you're actually winning
 more by not putting more money on the top line.
 Now, all of that to say, it doesn't mean that you can't put more money on the top line and
 continue to grow your revenues.
 There's probably some things that are holding you back.
 There's probably something we find in Stratplan all the time.
 We find that there are things holding companies back, that things that they're not doing
 correctly or things that they aren't seeing or things that they continue to do that is actually
 causing a negative effect to the business.
 And these are small businesses, small to medium sized businesses.
 We only have a handful of large clients that come through Stratplan, most clients that come
 through are small to medium size.
 And they discover a lot that helps them to make the right decisions for the growth.
 So, and one example is don't go ballistic trying to add money to the top line, especially
 if doing so is tanking your bottom line.
 Another example is, and I cannot tell you how many, I know I have many, many people that are
 listening to this going, oh, he must be talking about me.
 It's possible because there's a lot of folks that make the same mistake and they think
 they're the only ones doing it.
 You are not the only one making the mistake of opening up another location when you're not ready
 for it.
 It happens all the time, all the time, all the time.
 People hear from a cousin, a friend, somebody in some business group somewhere, tell them that
 they need to open up more locations because the one location that they currently have is making
 money.
 And it's doing well.
 Well, if you just duplicate that process, the problem is is that you don't know how to duplicate
 the process, but the bigger issue is you don't realize that you're about to take energy away from
 the money making process that you have.
 This is yet another great thing that we discover and help people with over and over again
 is to say, until you have a place that can completely operate by itself with its own energy.
 And you're not going to take that energy away and plug it into another location until that time
 don't open up another location.
 So in other words, what most people do is they've got a business that's running well and
 then they decide we can do this somewhere else.
 We can do it down the street, we can do it in the next town, we can do it in another state, whatever.
 And then they pull a lot of the energy and resources from the current business that's making
 money and plugging it into this new location and then both places begin to tank.
 Folks listen to me.
 That is not going to make you happy and it's definitely not going to make you wealthy and it's
 definitely not going to put all your dreams in place.
 What it is going to do is stress the living daylights out of you.
 It is going to stress you out way too much.
 So those are just some examples of what people do because we hear these supposed thought leaders
 telling us that we have to grow, grow, grow, grow, grow, you have to do, do, do, do, keep adding
 to that top line without thinking properly, without understanding properly.
 I can tell you you can be incredibly happy or if you don't go after a ton of business that's
 costing you actual money in your pocket.
 So thanks to think about it.
 I'm not saying you should work hard.
 Do not take that.
 If you've been listening to me long enough, you know that I am somebody who says when you are
 working busted, you should be busting it no matter what.
 We work hard around here.
 We definitely bust around here.
 But we also have a lot of fun, right?
 So I'm not saying you shouldn't bust it.
 I'm saying definitely busted.
 I'm saying you shouldn't die in the process of trying to grow your business.
 Don't stress you out.
 Don't kill you in the process.
 It's not worth it.
 I can tell you that it's not worth your stress, your life.
 It's not worth the missing out on life.
 How many entrepreneurs are missing out on their family because they keep convincing themselves
 that they have to have more money, more growth.
 I'm telling you, make a business run really well.
 Again, that's what we help so many people to do.
 Make a business run incredibly well and you will be amazed at how the money will show
 up.
 Remember the things that are holding you back and then you will be amazed at how much money
 shows up.
 So, it's okay to pause and ask yourself how much is too much.
 What am I sacrificing here?
 So there's three things I want to hit and the first one of these is maintaining harmony.
 So equilibrium can be every bit as important to growth and synergy as pressing for something
 new, something bigger, something better.
 Sometimes the right idea might be to back off a bit to stop pushing so hard for growth.
 Maybe you need to spend more time nurturing the people, your team, the processes that are
 helping your business grow.
 I've got a fantastic client that's been adding people to service more clients only to discover
 that the process is making it more difficult because instead of them doing it the way that she
 does it and how excellent she is that she's actually running into some issues that they don't
 care the same level of excellence, that they don't service the clients as well and that they
 are wanting tons of money.
 As individual team members, they're wanting to get paid incredible amounts of money as we've
 talked through this.
 One of the things I hope to see is if you didn't add those people, could you make way more
 money yourself personally and you continue to service the clients the way you do with excellence?
 She's like, yeah, totally great.
 Then you don't have to add more people, especially more expensive people.
 Maybe you can find a way of bringing people in as a training program and adding them in,
 but to hire people at this level where they're demanding great amounts of money, they
 don't have the experience you do, they don't treat the client the way that you do and it's costing
 you more money to add them, why do it?
 If you can make more net profit and we're not talking about that adding one person still adds
 a ton of money to her bottom line, it actually isn't.
 It was such a great conversation to say, hey, listen, what if you don't do that?
 Would you be more profitable?
 Yes.
 Great.
 Where would your sanity be?
 Much better.
 I'd be in a much healthier place if I didn't have to worry about people and going behind them
 because they're not as excellent as me and they're not doing the job that I would do and
 have to deal with the clients that are now upset because I put somebody in place that didn't
 do the job the way that I would do the job, right?
 So there is a great harmony in this as well to be maintained.
 So it's like a car analogy would be taking your foot off the gas pedal so that you can
 safely negotiate a curve, right?
 That would be wisdom.
 Then at the right time, you can press on the gas pedal again.
 So know the season that you're in, find harmony, find synergy, working with the season that
 you're in.
 If this is not the time to be adding people because they cost so much money, then don't.
 Right?
 If right now you can't get quality people at a quality rate, you're making money off
 of hiring those people and giving them an opportunity.
 I mean, think about this every day that they go to work, they don't have the risk of owning
 the business.
 They get paid to do the job and they get to go home and not worry about what it takes to own
 and operate a business.
 If you're not making money off of that and giving them that opportunity, don't hire them.
 Don't put them in place.
 Instead, make sure that you're keeping a quality harmony inside of your business.
 So also understand that if it is a smart move to add people and grow your business, fantastic.
 Go have fun with it.
 If you can add people and it adds net profit, if you can add people and it doesn't cause
 you to feel like you're just adding tons of stress to yourself.
 If it's the smart move because it moves your business in the right direction, it's part of the
 overall strategic plan.
 Great.
 Have fun with it.
 Just make sure that it is not aligning with the negative aspects that I've talked about,
 about not adding net profit, about not moving in the right direction, making you to stress
 out, throwing off other team members, all that kind of fun stuff.
 So number two, strategic structuring.
 So next thing we have to do is really take a hard look at the season that you're in.
 And this is one of the most important things.
 And this is somewhere where that we really help a lot of small and medium sized businesses
 understand where they are.
 What's holding them back right now?
 What's affecting their growth?
 What's affecting them from being exactly where they want to do.
 So we have to take a good look at who's doing what and where does it all make sense?
 Our people in the right place on the bus is the strategic plan is it's set up for the long run.
 So we also have to take a good look at how we are nurturing our client base.
 Are we serving them well?
 Maybe the vendors that we're buying from, maybe some of them need to be shift around.
 Maybe we need to get rid of some of them.
 So for us, we're technically a vendor to all of our clients.
 Our goal is to serve and help as many people as we can.
 The best way we possibly can, right?
 But what if we're not helping somebody?
 What if we aren't delivering on the service that we claim to provide?
 Well, then we wouldn't be any help to anybody.
 It's the same thing with your vendors that if they are not providing for you or maybe
 they're providing but for the love, they cost so much and there's somebody out there who can do
 just as good of a job if not better for less money.
 Maybe it's time to look around and see, are you spending too much?
 Are you losing too much and are you all these things?
 Are things that we need to take a hard look at?
 And it also may be okay to take some short term losses as long as they get you to long term
 success.
 Right, to get you to that strategic plan, you might have to make some shifts.
 So is there somebody on your team that you're paying too much?
 You know, like I talked about in this last situation, is it possible that you have somebody
 that is a great person, has great talent, has great experience, can do the job but unfortunately
 they cost you too much money.
 It's not putting money to the bottom line or it's not putting enough.
 It's causing you too much stress if so, then maybe they need to go on their own.
 Maybe they need to go work somewhere else.
 Maybe you need to look at bringing in people that can do the job for less money.
 Maybe there's somebody out there who has a little bit less experience but does exactly the same
 job.
 Maybe somebody's overqualified for the role in your paying them too much.
 Who knows?
 You have to take a look at these things.
 What about somebody who's on your team, who's not treating your clients well?
 That's one of the absolute worst things that I hate that.
 I can't stand having a team member and I won't have a team member who is thinking more about
 themselves than they are.
 Are client take care of the clients, serve the client.
 That was obviously as long as the client's not being a big jerk.
 So as long as the client is being a great client, serve the day lights out of the client.
 If you serve the client, it will serve you in the process.
 What if you have somebody who's not treating the client well?
 Well, then you may have to get rid of that team member.
 Yeah, but they come with so much experience, Chris, you don't understand.
 No, I do understand.
 I understand it.
 If a team member who treats clients badly is actually cared for more than the client, then you're
 going to start losing clients and then that person won't matter at all.
 So make sure if somebody's not taking care of the clients, work hard to get them to take care
 of the clients, work with them, have some tough conversations, do everything you can, but
 at the end of the day, if they're not going to take care of the clients, they're going to
 take care of themselves instead, then you probably don't need that person on your team.
 That's a short term loss that you can deal with because it will actually be better in the
 long run with that.
 Let me take a little side turn here.
 There are so many leaders over the years that I have helped to understand when they've got a
 team member that they can't seem to let go of because they're so valuable and they're
 so afraid that they do so much work, but they're causing all kinds of problems and there's
 all kinds of issues.
 Every single time I cannot think of a single time that I have helped a leader get that person
 off their team, walking through the whole process, trying to solve this, setting them up for
 success, doing everything they possibly can to help this team member be successful and at
 the end of the day, they just keep choosing not to be.
 I have yet to find a single situation where afterwards, in my pure week, two weeks, a month, two
 months, that that leader comes back and says, oh my gosh, I didn't realize they actually
 weren't doing half as much as I thought they were.
 I didn't realize that they were slacking a lot of areas, they weren't getting things done.
 I found a pile of things that they haven't gotten to yet.
 I found stuff on their computer or whatever that shows that they were really screwing around.
 Whatever it is, every single time in that type of situation, I've seen the leader come back
 when I thought that they were just going to be so overwhelmed with getting rid of this
 person that the leader comes back and is actually happier that they did.
 Sometimes you're going to just have to make that decision.
 Do everything we teach as far as making shirts not you, making sure that person is everything
 they need, making sure that you've given plenty of opportunities for them to fix themselves,
 but at the end of the day that maybe a short term loss you need to have.
 Also, what if someone on your team would be better in a different seat in a different place?
 Well, that's another thing you're going to have to think through.
 Is it possible that moving somebody around is actually going to benefit the person, the
 team, the company, the clients, whatever?
 Take a hard look and see, maybe some people need to be shifted, maybe we've been not
 paying attention to this and not thinking about it correctly, but if we put some people in different
 seats, it might be the best thing that we can do.
 So Jim Collins in his book, Good to Great has a concept regarding resources and growth percentages,
 and what he says is to ask yourself, how much can you grow in a year without negative consequences?
 So I will say this.
 This is super, super, super important.
 There are so many people that do not recognize that growing beyond your capacity in a year is actually
 going to negatively affect you.
 What am I saying?
 Oh Chris, we're so happy.
 We grew 45% last year.
 Yeah, how are you doing?
 Well, we got a whole lot of problems.
 We've got some issues with some team members.
 We were falling behind on some projects.
 Okay.
 So was 45% worth it.
 Well, it's so great to see the number 45% I mean, that's such an amazing number to put on the
 bottom line.
 Okay, or on the top line.
 Okay.
 But how are you handling all of the growth?
 Well, that's a completely different story.
 We are struggling on projects.
 We have some balls that are getting dropped.
 We have some clients that are upset.
 We have some vendors that aren't being able to supply a stuff in time.
 So here's the thing I want you to understand.
 One of the great things I love about Collins' research on, now this is big industry, but
 still the concept fits all businesses.
 One of the things I love most about his research back in those days was the companies that
 knew that they had a minimum amount.
 They must grow because growing less than that was going to hurt them and they maximum
 amount that they can grow.
 Growing beyond that is going to tax their capacity.
 This is a tough thing to get in a business owner's mind.
 A small business, a medium size business.
 This is a very difficult thing to get in a business owner or in a leaders mind that you do
 not want to outgrow your capacity.
 Now, for example, one of the things that we will do is we will take a look at our capacity
 in a year's time.
 We will plan things and ask ourselves, what can we add?
 Is there stuff that we can add?
 Is there stuff that we need to take away?
 We had one year that we had a bunch of stuff going on and team members are like, I think we
 can add these five new things.
 Great.
 Let's sit down, we did a mini-strat plan and let's sit down and take a hard look at what we have
 available at the end of the day.
 When we had all of these ideas and everything was a great idea and everything was going to
 serve clients well and everything was going to make money at the end of the day, the team,
 not me.
 The team came back and said, there's no possible way we could do more than adding this one
 event over here and that's going to be a decent size event.
 Everything else, when they looked at our capacity, our resources, our time with our team
 members, everything at the end of the day.
 When they looked at it, they went to add more than that.
 It's going to overtax our team and cause us to fail in other areas and it's just not worth
 it.
 So at the end of the day, we added that event.
 We did a great event, it was fantastic.
 We made some money on it, things were fun and the team was not overtaxed.
 I was very proud of my team that they looked hard at our capacity and said, nope, can't do
 it.
 We don't want to overtax ourselves, we don't want to mess ourselves up.
 So what am I saying?
 It would be very smart of you to sit down and ask yourself, what is the capacity for growth
 that we have?
 What's the percentage that we feel like we can grow that won't mess things up?
 We can do this, we can do this, we can do this.
 A lot of those big industry businesses, none of them had a growth percentage higher than I believe
 20%.
 But I don't think a single one of them had a minimum growth less than 12.
 They knew they had at least 12%.
 They knew if they grew 21%, it was going to be a problem.
 11% was going to be a problem.
 21% was going to be a problem.
 The sweet spot was in that 12 to 20%.
 You have to ask yourself the question, how much can you grow in a year without negative consequences?
 So lose this concept of being so super excited about growing 45% oh my gosh, it was amazing.
 It's not amazing.
 It's not amazing if growing 45% actually cost you in the long run because you lose clients,
 you've got the ball on projects, vendors can't deliver, team members are stressed out, you're
 stressed out, it's not worth that 45%.
 What if 30% was great growth, 35% was great growth?
 What if even 40% was something you could do but 45 was too much.
 Then we need to make sure we don't grow that extra 5%.
 Number 3 redefining success.
 Now I will tell you, for many years of my life, profit was one of my top motivating factors.
 It hasn't been for decades.
 Profit is not my number one motivating factor.
 Our company, it's not our number one motivating factor.
 God is serving God is our number one motivating factor, helping people to change their lives
 as our number two motivating factor.
 Always tell our clients we will help you make.
 The money you want to make is much as you want to make.
 We will help you to run successful businesses, we will help you to create the life that you
 want the business that you want, we're all about that.
 Just understand for us, money is not our number one thing.
 I spent too much of my life chasing money and you know what?
 At the end of the day, I will tell you.
 It is not the thing that creates happiness.
 Your relationship with God will blow anything out of the water and your ability to help other people
 before yourself will also blow anything out of the water.
 So understand that profit is not the metric by which we define success.
 Our top priority is God and people seeing that you know God is serving that people's lives
 are being changed means that we are succeeding.
 Let me say that again, if we are serving God and people are getting their lives changed, people
 are choosing to change their lives because we've delivered them the information so that they
 can do so, then we're succeeding.
 That is success to us.
 Now obviously if we keep going into the red, then we're not going to be around long enough to
 help many people.
 So it is a priority.
 It's just not the top priority, right?
 I'm not going to run a business that's not profitable.
 That's just a waste of time.
 I don't feel like God's called me to that either, right?
 We should have profit.
 We should be able to put food on the table.
 We should be able to live a good life, a quality life.
 It's just not the highest focus.
 If we take care of the other things first, everything else comes after.
 What's great about this mindset is that it frees us up to think strategically about what success
 is.
 So I will tell you, we also don't do debt.
 Haven't done debt in decades.
 It's not a focus for me.
 I don't do debt.
 I don't try and grow my business by going heavily into debt.
 Instead we focus on what we can do to help people and God brings all the rest and we're
 able to grow the business at a great pace and take care of a lot of folks.
 So the great thing is I'm not stressed out and emotionally attached to my decision making
 because I'm so far in debt and I've got to service that debt.
 Does that make sense?
 Do you hear what I'm saying?
 I'm free to think strategically about how our business is going to go because the business
 is paid for.
 Everything we do is paid for it.
 Pace for itself.
 So we can make all kinds of decisions because we're not servicing something that we're emotionally
 attached to.
 Think of how desperate you have been in times of making decisions because you have to solve
 a debt payment or because you are not prepared or you're growing too fast or your resources
 are getting taxed or people are getting stressed out and they're leaving your business.
 None of that.
 None of that is worth it.
 That's not fun.
 That's not enjoyable.
 And the person who does find that enjoyable needs to come to next level.
 I mean, it's to see a counselor because it's not fun.
 That's not fun when everybody's stressed out.
 So anyways, let me also say that having your priorities right will help you to mitigate the
 risks as well.
 So maybe you look at the risk of losing some income.
 What does that look like?
 If we lost some income, does that actually solve things in a better way?
 We lose some in the short term, but does that make a better long term decision?
 Versus the risk of losing your health or your sanity?
 Which it's not worth it.
 Losing your health in this process is not worth the money.
 The old saying where you spend your health trying to gain wealth and then you spend your wealth
 trying to gain health.
 It's just not worth it.
 Saying no can be as important as saying yes.
 Is any of this saying that you shouldn't go bust it?
 No.
 Is any of this saying that it's not okay to go and build a big business?
 No.
 None of this is.
 Every bit of this is speaking to balance and making right decisions.
 There are times I don't mind decreasing profit.
 If it means also reducing stress that is bigger than the struggles of the profit that I'm having.
 But I don't want to decrease profit or productivity while incurring more stress.
 It's a balance, right?
 Don't go after profit and increase your stress.
 But at the same time I'm not going to decrease my profit if I don't have stress.
 If I can continue to grow and continue to put numbers up and help people and serve God and
 all of that fabulous that I want to keep going.
 But if it's going to start taxing my health, nope, my sanity, nope, my family, nope.
 I can tell you it's not worth it.
 It is just not worth it.
 That's not a good trade-off.
 To find balance we have to consider the consequences or as my daughter says the consequences.
 Your longevity in business is a key factor to you ultimately winning in business.
 This is a marathon not a get rich quick scheme and hopefully you know that by now.
 So here's my question to you.
 Are you finding a balance between work and life?
 If you believe that business is what you do, not who you are, then you might be able to do it.
 If you believe that you are your business, if your identity is tied up in it, if it owns
 you, then you will likely not find a healthy balance.
 Now I want to give you an example of the blue zone communities.
 Maybe you've heard about the blue zones.
 Maybe you've not blue zones or areas of the world where people live the longest lives.
 And consistently reaching 100 years old.
 They have more centenarians than any other place on the planet.
 In contrast, the average life expectancy in the US is currently 77 years according to the
 CDC.
 No.
 What you can trust from the CDC and what you can't, I'm going to leave that up to you.
 However, we do see that we don't have more centenarians in the US except for one spot
 which happens to be a blue zone.
 We have one spot in the US that is a blue zone.
 We have one in Sardinia Italy.
 We have one in Greece, one in Oh goodness.
 I'm forgetting all the spots.
 Ok, now I can't remember where else.
 I think there's like six total blue zones.
 And these are folks that have right priorities in life.
 They all work.
 They bust their bowel.
 You know, once they get way up there in an age, some of the areas don't work, but like the Sardinians.
 They are working.
 A lot of them are farmers.
 They walk six miles a day at 100 years old.
 They drink a specific granash wine.
 They have fun with, they have lots of community with people.
 And the amazing thing is is that they get up over 100 years old.
 They're still doing all of this stuff.
 And then when they go, they go fast.
 They don't spend years dying from cancer.
 They don't spend years dying from dementia or other issues.
 They go.
 And it's fast.
 And they've lived a great life.
 But they have balance.
 They do their work.
 They enjoy their community.
 They eat well.
 They celebrate.
 It's amazing the things that these blue zones have in common.
 And when you compare it to the average business owner or leader, what we see is in the US,
 that the concept for the business owner and leader is more, more, more, more, more, more, more.
 Go, go, go, go, go, go.
 You're not doing enough.
 You're not doing enough.
 You're not making enough money.
 You're not putting up enough numbers.
 You need to compare yourself to everybody around you.
 And then we live stressed out lives.
 And we get to 50 or 60 or 70 years old going, what the heck happened?
 Why are we doing this?
 So listen to me.
 If you're struggling with any of what we're talking about, if your life feels out of balance,
 then get yourself in here for an ex-level life event.
 You can check that out at curcicardo.com/nexlevellife.
 Your next level life event is an intense two-day workshop.
 That's all about you.
 One on one.
 It's helping you to find the life and business that you really want.
 It's taking your life to the next level.
 Go to curcicardo.com/nexlevellife.
 So here's a deal.
 Don't let growing your business result in an early death for you or your team.
 And I mean that.
 That may sound heavy, but seriously, folks.
 It is not worth it, right?
 Do the three things we talked about.
 Maintain a healthy harmony.
 Make sure you're strategically structured and take a hard look at how you, you measure success.
 At the end of the day, ask yourself this question.
 Ask your spouse.
 Do they see success the same way that you do?
 To your spouse is success.
 A lot more money, a lot more stress, a lot less time together.
 So then we probably need some good marriage counseling.
 Your spouse needs to get in the next level of life as well.
 So, well, folks, that's all the time that we have for today.
 I really hope this has helped you out.
 I really hope you take this on and start thinking about what does success look like for you.
 What do you want your business life to look like your work life balanced to look like?
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life.
 And join us on the next level.
 [MUSIC]