 Three big things leaders need to consider when deciding whether or not to take that risk and what they may risk by not taking it.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do,
 it's not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day, wherever you are.
 The question for today is, are you a risk-taker?
 If you're a business owner, then surely you are.
 If you've started a business and invested in a kickstarted project,
 put money in any kind of investment, bought that piece of land or kept renting,
 you made any level of decisions on behalf of others.
 If you've done anything with consequences beyond your control,
 well, that was a risk.
 You took a risk.
 So here's my question for you.
 How did you decide it was worth it?
 Let me ask you this question.
 Do you see risk-taking like gambling?
 Or is it part of your strategy?
 Do you even have a strategy, right?
 So it doesn't matter all of those potential risks that somebody took that I just listed out.
 They could have been a business owner.
 They could have been a leader.
 They could have been a state home spouse.
 They could have been a youth.
 Although probably most youth aren't starting businesses are buying property,
 but it could still be possible.
 It doesn't matter.
 Today, we're going to examine some of the ways to assess risks,
 as well as take a look at what might be holding us back from taking necessary
 an important action in the face of uncertainty.
 So one of the things I absolutely love about our audience is that we have a great
 group of different positions, roles and ages.
 So I love that I'm able to speak to somebody who's 50, 60 years old out there about taking risks
 at this point in your life.
 And I also love all of you teenagers that are listening from the young gals up in Alaska,
 the former frostbite, foods gals that are listening to the show,
 and learning how to make decisions in life and business decisions and all kinds of stuff.
 To the young folks that are riding the back of Mama Dad's car that are still commenting.
 I love hearing parents talk about how their 12 year old asks to listen to the show.
 I love that.
 Why is that so important to me?
 Because the younger we get this stuff, all the old folks are older folks are going to say,
 "I am into this, the younger we get this, the better decisions we can make going forward.
 This show is about making better decisions.
 This show is about having a better life, having a better business, having better relationships,
 having a better family."
 So let me just kind of tell you a little bit about me when it comes to risk.
 I actually enjoy taking risks.
 I raised four mili cars and yes, that was a past.
 I have hung up the racing the four mili cars on Obu,
 but God's just got too many more important things for me to focus on.
 But I've raised four mili cars, one of the most dangerous aspects of racing.
 I'm an open cockpit, very low to the ground, but absolutely loved it.
 Still love it.
 What a great joy.
 I've raised in skiing, growing up.
 I am a multi-business owner, own multiple businesses.
 There's all kinds of things that I have done to take risk.
 But for me, I'm somebody who likes to calculate risk.
 So we're going to go through three big things that we need to talk about,
 but before we get into those, I want you to understand.
 I don't like to just take risk.
 I don't even like to take risk on things that I don't know what the outcome might be.
 As a matter of fact, I usually don't.
 For me, there's no point.
 I like to calculate the risk.
 What could happen?
 What and one of the questions I ask all the time,
 and highly suggest that you do, whenever you're looking at anything,
 is that's the question, how could this fail?
 What could a failure look like?
 We're going to talk about failure in a little bit.
 But for me, I want to know what's the potential risk, what's the potential loss?
 If I lose this, am I okay with it?
 I've made some business decisions that put a lot of cash on the line,
 and had to make the decision, am I okay if I lose all of this money?
 If this all goes, am I okay with that?
 Yes, because the potential of it working out is much greater,
 but still if I lose it, I'm going to be okay with it.
 There's lots of things that I do when it comes to risk.
 I'm obviously always going to try and mitigate the risk.
 How can I remove some of the risk out of a situation?
 But for me, I always want to know, can I calculate the risk?
 Here's a second part of me.
 Some of the big risks that I've taken in my life were not me deciding to take the risk.
 They were understanding that it was something God was telling me to do.
 When I started this business, I felt I was hearing God say,
 I needed to leave a very large platform and start from scratch,
 and I just needed to trust God.
 I needed to take that leap of faith.
 I took that leap of faith, not knowing.
 I didn't have a calculated risk factor here.
 I just knew God said, go do it.
 It didn't matter what the risk was.
 It didn't matter how it could fail.
 It didn't matter any of that.
 He was telling me to do it.
 It was the right thing to do.
 It was a must.
 It took a big leap of faith.
 Started all over and it was incredible how God just blew it up.
 It became way more than I thought it was going to be.
 In the beginning, I thought I was just going to be coaching some clients on some things.
 We've done over 500 next-level life.
 We've had a scholarship program that is almost completely full of single moms and single dads.
 And just the lives that we've been able to impact and help and guide to greater perspective.
 And the businesses, the strap plans that we've done and all the folks that are in the mastermind programs.
 All of this life change.
 By the way, just so you know, for all of you that are at the retreat right now,
 I am cutting this while Joel Fortner is teaching a lesson.
 We have got all of these folks in our building.
 And inside of this group is a 10-year-old who's here.
 That is Father brought along because he wants to hear and learn some of this stuff.
 We've got a couple of other late teens in here.
 We've got some early 20s in here.
 This is just my heart.
 I love helping folks, but not just the people, but helping them to help their families, their kids,
 their next generations, right, to learn how to make better decisions.
 So all of this is because I trusted God.
 And instead of calculating the risk that time, I took the leap of faith because it was based on him.
 It was on what he wanted.
 Right? Now, there was a lot of prayer. There was a lot of struggle.
 But at the end of the day, it doesn't matter. He's telling me to do this.
 This is what I'm going to do.
 So when you know for a rough act, it's God telling you you're supposed to do something.
 Take the leap of faith.
 And here's the thing, God's not going to call you to anything that's going to fail.
 I learned that from Daniel App and cheese.
 Probably almost 20 years ago.
 God's not going to call you to anything that's going to fail.
 If he's calling you to it, it's going to succeed.
 But here's another important thing.
 All of you out there that enjoy going after something that's building an empire to yourself.
 God's never going to call you to something that goes against him.
 God's never going to call you to something that's building your own empire and not focusing on building the kingdom of God.
 So understand those pieces, super important things.
 Okay.
 So what does a risk-taker look like?
 A risk-taker is someone who is willing to do things that involve potentially danger,
 or risk in order to achieve a goal.
 That often looks like calculated in bold action without certainty of what the outcome is going to be.
 Potentially negative consequences.
 Definitely outside of your comfort zone as well as embracing challenges.
 So the other thing that people recognize is life is full of risk.
 It's everywhere.
 Many times you're taking a lot of risks.
 And you might not recognize that you actually take more risks than you think.
 So let's take a look at three big choices or things to learn as we look at being a risk-taker or increasing more
 or at least understanding what it looks like to take risk.
 Number one is you got to take baby steps.
 Leaps of faith begin with learning too walk.
 You've got to start small.
 I do not suggest no matter how old you are,
 taking massive risks that can cause massive consequences.
 Again, start small.
 Take small risks.
 Be able to walk yourself through the process.
 You know, it's the whole saying that journey of a thousand steps begins with a single step.
 But if you don't start somewhere, you're going to forever remain where you are not taking risks.
 So start small.
 Take a look at the opportunities that you have in your life.
 Take a look at what does it look like to push yourself harder for a promotion and a business.
 What does it look like to add a product line if you're a business owner?
 What does it look like to grow in an area that you've never been educated on but you enjoy it?
 What does it look like to take that, you know, that step in the direction of a passion in your life?
 That can also put foot on the table.
 Make sure you can take care of yourself.
 What do these things look like?
 Here's the deal.
 What do you risk by not learning to branch out?
 By not taking educated and informed risks?
 What you risk is staying exactly the same.
 What you risk is getting older going, I wish I had done all of those things.
 They say that the biggest risk is not taking any risks at all.
 A big risk is not knowing what your capacity is or how to live life to the best it could possibly be.
 One of the things I enjoy knowing is I recently know my capacity for things.
 I know what I can accomplish.
 I know what I can't.
 I know my weaknesses and my strengths.
 If you look inside of my team, a lot of my risk taking in my early years, 30 years ago,
 was learning what my weaknesses are.
 So by focusing on my strengths, I also try to be all things to all people and learn very quickly.
 There's areas I'm just weak and I am never going to be a solid detail person.
 That's just never going to be me.
 So on the type of person who back fills my weaknesses in my business.
 I don't want to take the risk of helping people.
 Our whole business is focused on you.
 Our whole business is focused on helping you have a better life, have a better business, have a better job,
 a better family, a better relationship, right?
 So what I don't want to do is take the risk of guiding and leading and directing you.
 And yet I can't back it up because I have weaknesses and areas like administration.
 I can do any administration.
 But what takes me four hours would take somebody on my team 30 minutes.
 And it's vice versa, right?
 Something that takes them four hours.
 I cannot cut in 30 minutes.
 So keys are understanding your capacity.
 And one of the biggest keys here me on this, listen to me.
 If you don't take risks, then failure will be your master, not your teacher.
 Failure is the greatest teacher for the student who is willing to learn.
 There are these supposed thought leaders out there that have these things like failures, not an option.
 Folks, that is just straight ignorance.
 Failure is inevitable.
 You are going to fail at something, at some time, at some point.
 Failure is going to happen.
 The problem with this concept of you're not able to fail, you can't fail.
 Is that a keeps you in this place of thinking that failure is horrible.
 The truth is, I have built a business from learning from my failures.
 This show, everything that we do is based on me learning from my own failures.
 That's why I teach these things.
 That's how I know the stuff that I know.
 That's how I've become an expert at how to solve problems.
 How to take risks, all this kind of stuff. Why?
 Because I failed at it before.
 The difference is that I don't let failure destroy me.
 I let failure teach me.
 It's something that I allow to grow me.
 I'm immediately looking to what I learned from that failure.
 We have a way of solving problems here in our business.
 What happened?
 How did it happen?
 Why did it happen?
 How are we going to fix it?
 How do we make sure it never happens again?
 Those five aspects will allow you to fail.
 As long as it's not a fail failure, I tell my team,
 if you're not failing, then you're not doing enough.
 But here's what I don't want.
 I don't want any fail failures.
 Don't step out and do something that's going to be catastrophic.
 At the same time, while I'm allowing you to fail,
 I want you to fail because that means you're moving things around and you're going to learn.
 Don't keep failing at the same thing.
 Don't just fix something.
 Don't put a fire out and let that fire start up again somewhere else.
 So, if you don't take risks, failure will be your master.
 It is important for you to be able to make the decisions of stepping out.
 I have taken lots of risks.
 I have a couple of real estate companies.
 I remember when I first started investing in real estate,
 now I wanted to invest in real estate when I was a kid.
 I remember being about 10 years old and I looked forward to the day that I could start owning real estate
 and buying real estate and making deals and all that kind of stuff.
 It doesn't look anything like I thought I did a 10 years old.
 But I have made decisions to invest large sums of money in something.
 In different properties, with the goal of making money.
 With the goal of creating cash flow, with the goal of holding on to something,
 putting my money into something that sits for a long period of time.
 And yes, I get some cash flow.
 But the goal is that that property is going to go up and value.
 And praise God, they all have.
 I've taken those risks.
 But guess what risk I didn't do.
 I didn't do it through debt.
 Not a single one of my investment properties that I purchased.
 Did I do with that?
 Everything I did was I calculated the risk.
 I got myself out of debt 20 years ago.
 And then started saving money and stockpalling money as much as I could.
 And then started putting them into these investments.
 Why?
 Because I had already calculated the risk of how much pain and how much opportunity I was losing
 by spending money on debt by losing money on interest.
 So it has been powerful for me to get myself in a position where I could make decisions like that and take risks like that.
 I have been very blessed to be able to put money in things in the background.
 Guess what else I've put money into.
 Growing my teams for decades.
 I enjoy growing the team.
 I actually love taking money off the bottom line and put it back into people as a resource.
 Why?
 So that we can change more lives.
 So that we can impact more people.
 I want to be able to grow this team to the size that we can continue to help more people.
 We have a different type of a business.
 A lot of stuff that we do is trading time for money.
 We don't just crank out widgets.
 A lot of folks can crank out a widget and it sells on its own.
 You don't need to bring in a big team unfortunately.
 Well, unfortunately, it depends on how you look at it.
 For us, we trade time for money.
 So for us to help you, we have to lose time to help you.
 It costs us spending time to help people.
 And that is exactly where we feel called to be.
 What I love to have a business that cranks out widgets and just stockpiles money.
 Sure.
 Absolutely.
 But it's not what I'm called to.
 God's taking care of us and blessing us.
 And as he does, I love pouring that back into people.
 Is it a risk?
 Oh, for the love.
 All the business owners out there.
 You know what it's like dumping money into certain aspects of your business.
 Certainly, I will just say this.
 I have lost a lot of money on hiring marketing people that didn't make things happen.
 That is something over the decades.
 It is one of those tough decisions you make is putting money into an individual who comes in and can't do what they promise they can do.
 There's only so many things you can interview out of a person.
 And unfortunately, I've made those mistakes in the past.
 Praise God.
 We're not doing that now.
 We have a phenomenal team.
 But those are risks that I was willing to take.
 Those are things that by knowing my part of calculating risk is knowing my piano, my profit and loss statement.
 Understanding where we are.
 Understanding where we're going to be by forecasting a 12 month rolling forecast.
 Knowing where we're going to have money and then turning around and looking at the team and going, okay.
 Go hire this or go spend money here.
 So all of those are calculated risks.
 All of those are things that you know, you have to start with taking baby steps to work your way up to some of these bigger risks.
 Okay, so number two is embracing failure not fear.
 Now I just talked a lot about failure, but an important piece of this is that failure is part of any learning process, but fear keeps us servants to failure.
 The fear of failing can keep us bound to mediocrity.
 It can keep us paralyzed when bold action is actually required, right?
 Now we don't seek to fail, but neither should we fear failure.
 We're not limited by failure.
 We should be able to gain perspective and learn.
 Again, failure is a teacher for the student who is ready to learn.
 For the student who's ready to learn, failure is not a master.
 Fear is a colossal waste of time.
 No, you've probably heard me teach about this.
 There is, you know, the 98% of fear is created.
 It's imagined.
 You think something's going to happen.
 So you fear it.
 2% is the omega, I'm actually being chased by a lion or a, you know, a rabbit dog.
 I don't know.
 You know, something bad is going to happen.
 But in this, oh, I'm driving on ice and I'm sliding right now.
 There's a really good chance.
 I'm going to crash into something.
 That fear is such an incredibly small percentage of the fear that you experience in a day.
 Unfortunately, we create all the rest of the fear.
 Oh, my gosh, this person's not going to like me.
 Oh, my gosh.
 I just said something stupid and everybody's judging me.
 Oh, my gosh.
 If I take that risk, everybody's going to think I'm a complete moron.
 All of these fears that you tell yourself,
 especially around the area of failure are ones that you create.
 What happens if you just start crushing all of the created fear?
 What happens if you aren't afraid of failing?
 Even if it's just the small failures.
 Yes, I don't want you to go fail on a fail.
 I don't want you to go do something huge that's really stupid.
 But what if you began to work in your brain with truths about failure?
 Why am I afraid of that?
 What happens if that does happen?
 Like one of the things I'll ask people all the time when they're like,
 "Well, I'm afraid of failing at this thing.
 What if you do?
 I would be terrible.
 No, no, no.
 What if you do fail at it?
 Then what?
 Well, I guess I'll just fix it.
 Okay.
 How bad would the failure be on a scale of zero to ten?
 Oh gosh, it's probably an eight.
 Let's think through it.
 Let's process the failure.
 And after we process the failure, last question,
 scale of zero to ten.
 It's probably a two or a three.
 Okay.
 Then why are we so scared of it?
 Why are we so afraid?
 And I'll tell you,
 the bulk of the fear, listen to me,
 the bulk of the fear is being afraid of man's opinion.
 Oh, you young folk out there, I so hope you get this.
 Don't be afraid of man's opinion.
 The opinions you should be concerned about are the ones that come from healthy people.
 Folks who actually know what they're talking about.
 Folks who are not demeaning you, disparaging you,
 treating you horribly, trying to control, trying to manipulate you.
 But somebody who wants to speak into your life because they have experience.
 Because it's coming from a place of health, not toxicity.
 All of the opinions of the people who are toxic,
 who are telling you how horrible you are or you can't do that or you're stupid.
 Or whatever, get those voices out of your life.
 Look at all the messaging that is out there in the media today,
 that is telling you how you have to be, what you have to believe,
 what you have to think and one of the absolute worst is the decisions of others that you must be okay with.
 Or you're a horrible person.
 The funny thing is that people that are screaming that don't like your decisions.
 They want you to be okay with their decisions and their terrible decisions and things that they do in life.
 But they shouldn't like your decisions and that's okay.
 You're the bad person if you're not okay with what they're doing.
 Get these voices out of your life.
 Don't be listening to them. Get your butt off of social media stuff, tick, talk and watching bad videos and bad people that are screaming about how horrible life is and all the negativity.
 Get that out of your life.
 Don't be listening to all of the victims and the victim mentality that is going around like crazy.
 It is so fashionable to be a victim right now.
 What happens when you spend time around people who are victims?
 You become one.
 You're listening to the show right now because you want to have a better life,
 because you want to make better decisions in life.
 The guy who is teaching this to you right now does not have victims in his close circle of friends.
 I'm not saying I don't have victims in my life,
 but the people who actually influence me are not victims.
 They don't get in the inner circles.
 I have circles of relationships.
 The inner ones are the healthiest people.
 Those are the people that have the most influence over me and they should.
 Those are the opinions that I care about.
 Those are the opinions that I listen to.
 And if you know anything about me, you know that I am the type of person who's constantly gaining perspective.
 I will ask my team, I will ask family members, I will ask friends,
 "Hey, what are your thoughts on this? What do you see here?
 What do you think this is going to turn out to be? I'm constantly asking people for their opinions?
 It doesn't mean that I always go with it.
 It means that I love gaining perspective.
 Because it helps me make better decisions.
 Guess who I'm not asking for their advice on victims.
 Controlling people, manipulators, toxic folk.
 Why?
 I don't care. I don't want to hear it.
 I don't want that in my life. That's not going to influence me.
 I used to, when I was younger.
 In my young years, my youth, my teens, my early 20s.
 Those were the voices that absolutely influenced me.
 The controlling people, the manipulative people.
 I still have those voices still somewhere in relationship with me from time to time.
 They just don't get to influence me.
 Make those decisions.
 Do not fear, felling.
 Listen to the guy who's teaching you this right now.
 It's okay to fail.
 Just don't do fatal failures.
 And don't keep repeating the same failures.
 Learn what happened.
 How did it happen?
 What happened? How do we fix it?
 How do we make sure it never happens again?
 Leaders, business owners, parents,
 listen to me.
 You have to learn how to identify failure
 and teach and grow people in the situation.
 We should look at failure as a teacher,
 not as a huge stamp of how we as individuals are failures,
 because we are not.
 We need to spot fear and crush it immediately.
 We need to be able, I can't tell you how many times.
 I've literally been with somebody who is in a fear struggle.
 And I just become that calm voice of reason.
 What happens if this fails?
 One of the things sometimes I'll say to somebody in that moment is,
 face your fear right now.
 Do it right now.
 Now keep in mind.
 I'm talking about a fear that I absolutely know is something that they can overcome.
 I wouldn't be telling somebody to go jump off a bridge.
 Don't be afraid of that.
 You're sure you're going to be okay.
 I'm talking about in a moment where I as the teacher,
 the coach, knows the thing that they're fearing is something that they can overcome immediately.
 For kids, for our kids, that's something especially the young ones.
 I've been able to speak, this is not something that you need to be afraid of,
 face this fear, go after it right now.
 Face it.
 And it is so powerful when somebody realizes they can overcome that.
 So leaders, teachers, parents, older siblings.
 Learn to be able to see the fear and squash it, crush it, help somebody overcome it.
 Okay.
 Number three, calculate the risk.
 Now you heard me talk about this at the very beginning.
 I want you to sit down and actually even put pen to paper.
 Make notes on your computer.
 I don't care.
 If you're able to process through this fantastic, that's great as well.
 But I want you to sit down and calculate the risk.
 What is the risk?
 First off, what's the fear?
 Now what fear do I have?
 Is that fear legitimate?
 Is it imaginary?
 If this thing fails and you know, so this is a big question.
 If this fails or actually what I like to ask is how can it be?
 Is how can it fail?
 So instead of it, if it fails, that is a question I ask.
 My first question usually is how can this thing fail?
 So when I look at the risk, how can it fail?
 I want to know the potential failures immediately.
 Right at front.
 Why?
 Not so that I rule out the risk.
 Believe it or not.
 It's not so that I can walk away from the risk immediately.
 I want to know the potential failures.
 So I can overcome the failure in the process.
 That becomes part of calculating the risk.
 So how can this thing fail?
 Well it could do this, it could do this, it could go this way, it could go that way.
 How could I mitigate that?
 How could I change that?
 How can I affect that?
 Is it what's the likelihood of it doing that?
 So that's one of the very first things.
 How could this fail?
 Now what if it does fail?
 How bad is it?
 So another calculation of the risk is if it does fail, how does it affect anything else in my life and somebody else's life?
 Right?
 So let's say I've solved as many failures as I could think of.
 You know, it could fail because it doesn't have good marketing push behind it.
 It could fail because people are interested in this thing.
 It could fail like, let's say if I was talking about real estate, it could fail because I don't have,
 you know, I've done all the information I can to discover if this is a good purchase and a good area and then nobody wants to rent it.
 I don't know, I'm just making the stuff up as I go.
 But how could this fail?
 You know, we're going to put a new event in place.
 Well, what if people don't want the message?
 All of these things give me information that I could go then run down.
 Well, let's dig into this further.
 If I don't have the answer to that right now,
 then obviously I don't have enough perspective.
 So how could it fail feeds me information?
 Go run that information down.
 Right? What if it does fail?
 What if I get all the greatest perspective?
 I put this thing in place and it still fails?
 How does it affect me?
 My family, my kids, my team, other people.
 Start thinking through the processes of how could this failure affect others?
 This is key.
 Don't imagine it.
 Don't let me say it this way.
 Don't make stuff up.
 Be incredibly realistic.
 Now obviously you haven't done it yet.
 So it is imagination, but be very realistic.
 If this fails, could it hurt somebody else?
 Could it hurt a family member?
 Could it hurt something else?
 You're doing a different aspect of your business?
 A different aspect of the role you have.
 Walk through those thoughts.
 How could this affect some?
 If this fails, how could it affect something?
 Here's another question to ask.
 How bad on a scale of zero to ten?
 Zero is not bad at all.
 Ten is oh my gosh.
 This is horrible.
 How badly on a scale of zero to ten will this impact things?
 People, others, me, finances, whatever.
 Right?
 If it's really not that big of a deal, great.
 It's a two.
 It's a three.
 Whatever.
 If it's horrible, gosh, if this thing fails, this is going to be terrible.
 Well, then don't do it.
 Right?
 If you can't solve it and mitigate it, then you've ruled this out already.
 Keep going though on the calculated risks.
 How much is this going to cost me in money?
 Personal time.
 Family time.
 Resources.
 Like, you know, my house, my car, my business.
 Tools.
 Whatever the thing is.
 How much is this going to cost?
 What is it going to take to accomplish this risk?
 So if the risk is, you want to learn a new language?
 Well, that doesn't take a whole heck of a lot.
 It requires time.
 It requires getting a good teacher or a great software program.
 It requires, you know, wedging that in somewhere into your life.
 Whatever that is.
 If the risk is starting a new business, well, that's a lot.
 There's a lot to that.
 And by the way, one of the biggest things I tell people, especially when they start a new business,
 is don't go after the dream size of your business.
 Start it incredibly small.
 I could talk about it in number one, baby steps, right?
 Start small, a great conversation ahead of one time.
 Was the guy reached out and he wanted to go and get a brick and mortar building to create a restaurant
 because people loved his tacos.
 And he's like, he's trying to convince me Chris, I have to do this.
 People love these things.
 They are amazing.
 They're incredible.
 And it's probably going to cost me about $350,000 for me to start this business.
 All this stuff because people like his tacos.
 Well, I asked him how many of you sold.
 He was, well, I haven't sold any yet.
 That's the point.
 It was starting the restaurant.
 So here's what happens.
 We become so excited about our idea that we go after what we think is the best version of it
 and dump a whole ton of money into it and then we don't know how to market.
 Or people don't actually like our tacos.
 Or or or.
 So instead of telling this guy, hey, that's a great risk.
 Go do it.
 What I said was go get one of those pushcards.
 If these tacos are so fabulous and he was in Southern California, I believe at the time.
 I said, if these tacos are so fabulous, there's incredible numbers of places around you where you can get to the public.
 Go get a pushcard.
 Go create those tacos on a pushcard.
 If they are selling in people love them, guess what?
 People will buy more of them.
 The word will get around.
 Then upgrade to a food truck.
 Now this is.
 Jeez.
 Probably.
 10, 15 years ago.
 So this was a while back before food trucks were really getting crazy popular.
 I want to go do it.
 If it's good.
 People will buy them.
 If they continue to buy them and they're out selling, you know, your food truck and you absolutely need to get a brick and mortar, which by the way.
 Nowadays, what do we know about food trucks?
 You can find a whole lot of spots.
 It's a lot better than a lot of brick and mortar is believe it or not.
 If people love them, then go ahead and do a brick and mortar.
 But start small.
 His response was.
 But I could just do so much more if I just got the brick and mortar.
 See the thinking.
 See the thought process.
 The thought process was I wanted to be the dream size.
 What's the problem with that?
 What if nobody wanted to pay for his tacos?
 Then that's a colossal waste of money.
 Now if he hits a big crate, that's fantastic.
 But he has no basis except for his friends who love his tacos.
 And I'm sorry.
 That is not a lot of quality perspective on making a decision like dumping $300,000 into a brick and mortar.
 So make sure that you calculate the risk.
 Go through every aspect that you can't.
 Now again, if the decision is starting a new language, there's not a whole lot you have to calculate here.
 If the decision is starting a new business, there is a ton.
 Here's a deal.
 All of this will help you to move in the direction of taking risks.
 All of these will help you to overcome fears.
 We'll help you to overcome failures.
 We'll help you to overcome the dread of man I've never done this thing in my life.
 And it's been 30 years, 40 years, and I wish I had done it.
 All of these things will help you to move forward in being a risk taker.
 By not risking, you risk becoming stale.
 You potentially risk becoming fruitless or even possibly obsolete.
 I know that sounds so doom and gloom, right?
 One of the biggest risks is that you will get later on in life and go,
 "I wish I had."
 Right?
 Anything that is worth anything involves risk in order to get it.
 So here's what you need to do.
 Boost your bandwidth.
 What can you do today to help boost your risk taking bandwidth?
 Five things you can do.
 Clare if I go.
 Make sure that they're motivated by a mission, right?
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And you can do that.
 And maybe today was a lot to process for you or you just want some help getting to the right decision.
 Great.
 We would love to help you with that.
 Check out our executive coaching program by visiting our website.
 Go to crsacrido.com/mastermind to find out more about getting the wisdom you need to succeed.
 It's crsacrido.com/mastermind.
 It is phenomenal phenomenal coaching.
 We have a lot of folks overcome fear over come failure.
 Make great decisions.
 Well, folks, that is all the time I have for today.
 I hope this information has helped you.
 And again, as I am recording this, looking out on all of the folks that are here that have overcome fear.
 That have made decisions to take risks.
 And those decisions are to come and learn some very difficult and tough lessons so that they can change the lives.
 Guess what they're going to do when they leave.
 They're going to go back and implement.
 Not through fear, not through fear of failure.
 They've already calculated the risk.
 They've already been implementing this stuff and making great choices.
 That's why they're here.
 Four times a year.
 They come on down and learn more stuff.
 Take it back, implement it, become successful.
 As always, we want you to take this information, change your leadership,
 change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]