 On today's show we are kicking off a brand new series on personality styles and we are
 beginning with the high D. That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover
 that business is what you do not who you are. Welcome to the show folks. I hope you're having
 a fabulous day wherever you are. Today we are introducing the topic of personality styles
 and their impact on relationships at both work and at home. So today we are starting with
 the high D personality style. Now if you have not checked out personality styles obviously
 good at our website but we are focusing on the high D high I high S and high C the disc personality
 styles and today we are exploring the high D personality style. Now let me just kind of give you an
 idea of the the characteristics the an overview of the high D. Now the high D personality style is
 one that is a driver tends to be a dominant personality style. And let me actually back up a
 little bit and say this the higher the number the more of what I'm explaining. So if they are a
 dominant personality style then on a scale of 0 to 100 the higher they are the more dominant
 they're going to tend to be. Now it's important as we talk through every one of these personality styles
 that you understand that there is a difference between maturity and immaturity. So as I talk about the
 positives and the negatives maturity can have absolutely nothing to do with age. You can be a 70 year old
 immature high D I S or C right what I'm talking about is when it comes to maturity and immaturity
 maturity is the more you know you the more you understand you the more you understand how you give
 information you receive information you act you react the more that you understand you and your
 personality style and you understand how to adjust that not to become a different personality style but
 to lean in the direction of somebody else the more mature you are. An immaturity is where we see all the
 negative aspects. So as I talk through some of the stuff many of these things are great fantastic you know
 great aspects positive aspects of the high D personality style but some of these also are very negative
 and can be used in negative ways. So the high D is that driver that that dominant personality style
 very assertive very decisive somebody who if there's no leadership will step up and take leadership in
 the area somebody who is very goal oriented by nature they want to get things done they enjoy getting things done.
 The high D is not somebody who wants to continue to do the same thing over and over and over for months
 years whatever they're not going to be the kind of person who wants to sit in a cubicle doing the same
 thing every day 40 hours a week you know a week after a week. They're the type of person who wants to be
 able to accomplish something make something happen drive something to success and then move on to the next thing.
 They are also people who are very task focused now not detail don't be confused task in detail
 two different things they are task focused but they really don't love details high D personality styles
 really don't want a lot of detail information they're the kind of person that if you give direction
 on something they're just going to go leave busted out accomplish it and you know it may not be
 pretty but it will be done. They love getting things done. They also tend to be folks who don't know
 that you have feelings or and heavy immaturity don't care that you have feelings many times feelings in
 their mind shouldn't get in the way you're feeling shouldn't matter. It should be let's get this
 thing done because I have an agenda and I want to accomplish this on top of that they can also be the
 kind of folks who will recognize that they're able to utilize the other personality styles to help them
 to accomplish something. Now in a mature way this is great they're able to help lead people to success
 on a project in an immature way they're coming in disrupting your day to get you to come help them do
 something and making you think that it's bodily important that you do it. So again great positive
 aspects of the high D drivers get things done accomplish goals goal oriented want to make things happen
 negative sides that can be super bossy that can be you know super focused on themselves super focused on
 accomplishing the things that they want to accomplish. This is why it's so important to understand
 personality styles because the more I know myself first and what my personality style is or my combination
 of the DIS and see the more I understand me the more I understand how I act. If I'm somebody who's
 a very dominant person I need to know that I tend to dominate other people that I tend to dominate situations
 this is something that's important for me to understand right. I need to know that I'm going to
 react to situations without appearing like I have emotion that I'm just task focused and I don't
 care about emotion and I don't care about your feelings that that's the way that I'm going to look at
 how I should respond to this situation. If I can understand these things about myself and then recognize
 as the high D there's only 10% of the population fall in the high D category. If I can understand that
 that I can understand that 90% of the population does not operate the way that I do and that if I can
 lean in the direction of the other personality styles then I can set them up for success. But part of what
 we're talking about today is not doing so. So we're looking at some of the interactions and conflicts
 that a high D will have with other personality styles. So when we look at I'm just going to go through
 the DIS and see right now and kind of talk about what some of those conflicts are going to look like.
 When we look at the high D who's working with another high D. Now high D's actually really love
 being around other high D's. They really enjoy the energy. They really enjoy the competition.
 They really enjoy knowing that somebody else wants to go accomplish things the way that they do.
 That somebody else wants to go tackle things the way that they do. So most of the time high D's
 love being around other high D's every now and then the competition gets too much and it becomes
 conflict where now I must prove that I can beat you at something. I must prove that I'm better than you
 at something. So if two high D's can stay not having to prove themselves to each other, not having to
 prove that they can do something better than any other person. Great good relationship. This is fun.
 But I understand this and I believe most if not all high D's would agree with me on this.
 The high D looks at another person doesn't matter if their DIS or C and wants to dominate them
 in something. If it's sports, if you're playing cards, if you're trying to accomplish
 getting a project done fast, the high D wants to dominate, wants to win, wants to be the one who
 does the better job. That's just the way that they look at the other personality styles. So high D
 with a high D, conflict comes in when they feel like they can't prove that they're better or they
 feel like they haven't done so. But the rest of the time, high D's actually enjoy doing things together.
 They enjoy doing competitive things together and it's good nature in their mind.
 High D's with the high high. Now high eyes really do look up to high D's because of their confidence.
 They look up to them and see that they can accomplish things. They can get things done. They can
 a bit higher that aspect. But something that's important to the high eye is that a high eye really
 loves people and a high eye really wants people to think that that high eye is special, that they are
 important, that they are good people. And many times, conflict will come into play when a high D
 doesn't appear to care. It doesn't appear to worry about whether or not a high eye has feelings about
 how they're coming across or how they're treating somebody or how they are impressing them with
 the stuff that they know or they're doing. High eyes are great in curators as well. And so many times
 the high eye will want to tell the high D something in an encouragement kind of way and the high D just doesn't
 care. Their task focus. They're not worried about it. They're not thinking about it. Instead they're like
 we've got a thing to do. So conflict between the D and the eye can always take place when an high eye
 feels like they just don't matter. That they are being attacked. That they are being treated as though
 their feelings don't matter. That they're not that important. That the high D just wants to do the
 task thing and doesn't want to spend any time being personable. Which is technically true. So
 interestingly enough when we take a look at communication, the high eye is going to be
 it's going to prioritize the personal aspects of communication. So the high eye speaking to a high D
 is always going to be, how is your day, how's your week going? Hey how's that thing? You bought
 that new boat? How's that new boat working out for you? They're going to want to have that personal touch.
 They're going to want to have that personal aspect. On top of that the high eye is also going to want to
 show the high D that they care that they're there to take care of things that they want to
 take things off the high D's plate. Conflict arises when a high D only focuses on the task with the
 high eye. When they don't actually communicate in a personal style, when they don't lean in the direction of
 the eye and show them that they care about them, show them that they understand that the high eye
 has feelings and lean in their direction personally. You're going to experience some conflict.
 The high eye is going to feel like they just don't matter. Another thing that we will see from
 high D's when it comes to high eyes is both the high D and the high eye, both do not care a whole heck of
 a lot about details. So when you see a high D community getting to a high eye, there is a really good
 chance. And again, keep in mind if this is a very mature high D, then a lot of this probably doesn't
 exist. It makes this from time to time. But if they're mature, they should be doing a really good
 job leaning in the direction of the high eye. Many times what you'll see is the high D is giving direction on
 something to that high eye and not giving enough information. There are also not making sure that the
 eye is understanding what needs to be done, that the eye has written this down or is documented
 that things that they're supposed to do or has put accountability to this. So instead, the D comes off
 as somebody who's really just kind of barking orders and expecting things from that high eye. So if they
 are not leaning in the direction of the eye, we're going to see a lot of conflict show up because what does
 the high D prioritize? The high D prioritizes the task. What does the high eye prioritize? The people.
 So we can see conflict a lot in that high D high eye communication style. If we're talking about a
 high D to a high S, this is a tough one because we would consider the D and the S is being almost
 opposite personality styles. The eye and the C being almost opposite very far from each other.
 Not close on the scale if you will of DIS and C. So it's a heavy swing to go from a D to an S. The S is
 the stable, amiable, loyal, hates conflict doesn't want to be front and center type of person. They're
 very supportive. They want to support the person who's out front. So what we discover a lot of times
 with conflict and communication when it comes to the high D and the high S is and D's, you know, you do this.
 Many times the high D will see the high S as somebody that I can take advantage of.
 They recognize that the high S is somebody who's going to be very supportive and they will use words like
 need. I need your help. I need you to help me on this thing. I have this important thing that needs to
 get done and what they understand is that they use the right terminology with that high S. The high
 S will pretty much drop a lot of what they're doing to go support the high D in this process. The crazy
 thing is they will feel like they're building a good relationship because like eyes, eyes are all about
 people. S's are all about people as well. D's and C's are all about task. Eyes and S's are all about people.
 And so the high S feels is though that they are being a great supportive person in this situation
 and the D is recognizing that they're able to get somebody to accomplish something for them.
 Conflict ultimately arises in a couple of ways. Eventually the high S since they will have
 pushed their priorities aside. Those priorities are going to come up and bottom in the butt.
 They're going to realize that they've missed out on accomplishing the things that they were supposed to
 accomplish. But they will feel really good because they've been helping this D accomplish what they need to do
 accomplish. So it felt like it was so much more important. And what will happen is eventually since
 they're not getting their stuff done, they probably get in trouble for not accomplishing the things that they're
 tasked with that will create conflict on top of it. What they will recognize is at some point
 that it does just appear like they're being used. That they're being treated with a, you know,
 I need you to do this so I can get you to get something done that I don't want to do. And a lot of
 IDs will see a task or a heavy task or a heavy detail process and they don't want to do it so they're
 going to find somebody that they can get to do it. So we will see the communication in that process
 be one of manipulation very possibly. But also one of not caring or understanding what that
 highest needs to do that that highest has a job has to fund their play. You know that they're bypassing
 a process to get that person to help them out. When we get to the high C, now here's something that's
 interesting. Now we we just talked to the D with the I and the S and those are both people people.
 But the C is very high task and incredibly high detail. So the C and the D, the C actually
 respects the high D because the high D is very task-focused. The C can struggle a lot of times with the
 high I or the high S because they are so people focused and the C many times is not. Many times the C just
 wants the task just once the details doesn't want to spend a lot of time with people. People can be conflict
 to the high C. So the ID they can have a lot of respect for high D because they recognize the task-focused.
 They both carry that task-focused. However, when communicating, if you look at the D, I, S and C, and you would say,
 let me rank the amount of details that each would have. The D is going to have the least amount of
 details through to the I, S and C is going to have the most amount of details. It gradually grows as you
 get to the high C. So that high C needs an incredible amount of details. Well, the high D doesn't want to give it.
 The high D doesn't naturally have a lot of details. In fact, the high D a lot of times is going to look
 to that high C to come up with some of the details. It's going to be actually sometimes an expectation.
 The high C on the other hand struggles with a lack of quality communication in the details.
 The high C, where a high D can look at a five foot view and say, hey, here's the thing,
 I need you to go build this table. The high D will just be like, all right, I'm going to build the table.
 But if you want to the high C, and you said, I need you to build a table. The high C is going to be
 what's the application? Where's it going to be used? What do you want this made out of?
 What direction is it going to fit? I'm going to need all the 30,000 foot view.
 What is this table for so that they can do the five foot view of building the actual table?
 So when we see the D's and C's communicate, we see a lot of conflict because the high D doesn't
 usually have a lot of details. No, do they really care for a lot of the details. In fact, many times
 you'll see the high D struggling with the high C because the high C wants more information and the
 high D is just like just do the thing. Just get the thing done. So as we've talked through all of
 these different conflicts with this high D, we see this obviously it's easy to apply this to the business life.
 You can think about what it's been like for team members. You've experienced all these personality styles
 within a team that you work on, a leadership team, whatever it is, but also take a look at home.
 What does it look like when you have a high dominant personality in your family? How do they respond
 to things? How do they treat people? Is there conflict? Where does the conflict come from?
 So you can see if you're going to be leading this personality style, you need to understand where
 the conflict is coming from, especially in the communication. So what about how we should communicate
 to a high D? So if we were looking at, it doesn't matter if you're an I, S, or C, whatever personality
 style you are, you're not necessarily going to communicate differently. In fact, you want to look at,
 you're not going to say, well, I need to communicate to a D this way and I need to communicate to a D,
 this way. And I need to communicate to a D this way. Nope, we're going to look at what does it look
 like to lean in the direction of the high D. So it doesn't matter what personality style you are,
 when communicating with a high D, there are certain things that you must understand.
 And one of the top things that you've got to understand when communicating with a high D
 is short and sweet baby, do not plan on taking up a bunch of the high D's time.
 So something you need to know, and especially all the way down to the high C, where the high C wants
 to share a lot of information, wants to make sure they've got all the information that they need,
 I'm going to tell you that that is not leaning in the direction of a high D. In fact,
 for a high D, the more information you give them, the more confused they get, the more they get stuck,
 because the more information the high D believes they have to do something with everything that you've
 shared. So if you've given a lot of information to a high D, you might find that they're actually
 really struggling in stopping you and pounding in on certain points that you might think,
 well, you really didn't have to stop me right there. You could just let me finish. The problem is is that they
 can't take any more of the information without solving, what do I do with what you just shared?
 So the more you can shorten that information up, the more you can be more direct with that
 information, the better will be for the high D. If they need to ask questions, they will ask questions,
 right? If you need to add something later on, maybe come back and have another discussion about this,
 that might be a possibility, but just focus on making sure that you're summarizing the information is
 much as possible for them to have enough information to do what you want them to do,
 and then you can ask questions like, do you have any questions? Does all of this make sense?
 What is this going to look like? What is the expectation? What is the result supposed to look like?
 So making sure that you're keeping it short and sweet is super important. Another thing is,
 you need to be very direct with how you deliver that information. They don't want a lot of
 planer on. They don't want a lot of details about something that doesn't matter. They don't want to know
 if you're going to be giving information to a high D, they don't really want to know how your weekend went.
 They don't care about that right now because their task mode is focused on what's the thing
 you're communicating to them. So if you jump in, let's say you're high in, you wanted to just have
 chit chat with them, then they're already confused. Why are we talking? Aren't you going to give me
 information on something else? Why are you sharing about your weekend? Why don't you get to the thing?
 Be direct. Get to that thing first, right? If afterwards they appear that they want to have a conversation
 you're great. Have a conversation about your weekend or your dog or your vacation or whatever, right?
 But understand what they're really looking for is for you to be direct with the information. Hey,
 here's the thing I want to talk about. So in other words, if you got into a meeting with all different
 personality styles, your best bet is to start with a little bit of chit chat. You know, warm up the room,
 get conversation going, that's great. If you walk into a meeting with a high D or multiple
 IDs, they want you to get directly to the point. Why are we here? What are we doing? What do you
 want to talk about? What's the information? Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, so make sure that you're
 being direct with the ID. Another very important aspect. Know what the heck you're talking about.
 This will also be the same thing with the high C. Make sure you know exactly what you're talking
 about that you're not hypothesizing something that you actually know. This is the thing. Here's the
 information, you know, or even exclaiming, you know, to the best of my knowledge. Here's what this is or
 to the best of my knowledge. Here's what this project should look like. Make sure you know what you're
 talking about. If you don't know what you're talking about, then the image or high D will really
 start to pick you apart. They'll start to pick that information apart. Because if they can't have
 confidence in the thing that you're talking about, then they will destroy the thing that you're
 talking about. So understand if you're going to go in sharing information, lead, guide, direct, whatever,
 communicate to a ID. Make sure you know what it is that you're talking about. If they discover
 that you're not confident or that you don't actually have details or you're saying that something is
 true, but then in a couple of minutes later they discover that it's actually not truth, it's something
 you're assuming, then that is really going to throw them off and they're going to pound your information
 to a pulp because that will frustrate the daylight out of them. Also, as you are communicating
 too a ID, make sure that you are focused on what the results are going to be. Okay, so listen,
 you already know that they're going to struggle with details. They need to know what the outcome
 is supposed to look like. This is the result that I'm looking for. This is how this is supposed to be.
 Does this make sense? What questions do you have about the result of it? If you have an
 expa, if you say go build a table, guess what? You're going to get a table and it's going to look
 whatever they decided it was going to look like. That's going to be made out of whatever material
 they decided it was going to be made out of. But if you will help them to focus on here's the results
 that I'm expecting, then that will help them to actually accomplish it. So those are some big key pieces
 of when you are communicating with a ID of how you should do that. The areas that you should be
 focused on. I know that a lot of you are listening to this and thinking to yourself, but that's just
 not me. But that's just I don't normally communicate that way. I completely understand.
 I get that. Our goal isn't in communicating to you. And this is something that holds people back
 from communicating well with the ID. If you're focused on delivering information the way that you
 receive information, then you're never going to set that ID up for success. You have to be willing,
 you have to desire for them to be set up for success. No matter what personality style you're talking to,
 whatever direction you're leaning in, you have to be more concerned about them being set up for success,
 then you communicating in a way that you would like. As long as you keep communicating the way
 you want instead of the direction of the personality style you're speaking into, it's going to hold
 you back from communicating well. Another thing is when it comes to the ID of things that are going to
 hold you back from communicating well is assumptions. Oh, for the love. I already said make sure that you
 know what you're talking about. Don't make assumptions with a ID. That will absolutely destroy your
 communication. Don't be afraid of the ID. This is another thing that holds people back from communicating
 really well. Is that their fear is that the ID is going to be super dominant and controlling or angry
 or or or. Now listen, it is very possible that a very immature ID if they are feeling out of control will
 bring a threat of anger. That is definitely a possibility in certain situations that's highly likely.
 You have to understand that's that person feeling out of control. So if that's a struggle for you,
 you're not going to communicate really well with them. You're going to hold back. You're going to be fearful.
 You're not going to share information that you need to. You're not going to drive information that you need to
 instead what you'll do is you'll probably want to get out of that conversation as fast as you possibly can.
 So we've got to avoid that recognize if they are struggling, and again, I know I'm speaking to other
 personality styles that can't stand conflict. I completely get it. I understand. But
 recognize if you can see that they are struggling with something, then you can push back on the ID and they
 will actually at some point start to back down a little bit, right? They want to bring that threat of
 anger. They want to sometimes be super dominant and controlling. But if you push back and ask questions like,
 "Are you okay? Is there something you're struggling with here? Is there something that doesn't make sense? Is there
 something that is causing you to be defensive? What's the reason behind that? If you can push on that? I know
 a lot of you are going to. I can never do that. If you can recognize you're not the one with the problem
 unless you're not doing the things I'm telling you to do. But they are the one who's feeling
 out of control, then it allows you to ask some questions to try and gain some clarity to find out what's
 going on. Next thing I want to talk about is how we can leverage the strength of the high-d personality style.
 How could we resolve conflict? What can we do to make sure that we aren't just looking at this
 high-d personality style going, "Oh my gosh, this is something or someone that's so difficult to work with.
 There's an incredible number of strengths that a high-d has. A high-d is able to get stuff done."
 Let me say, "Quite often, many of the other personality styles are very content sticking with
 status quo. They're very content doing the same thing over and over again,
 helping that everything becomes phenomenally successful. Then when something comes up,
 there might be something too challenging. There might be something that feels too difficult.
 There might be something that seems to have too much conflict to it. Guess what?
 If it has something to do with knocking something out, getting something done, accomplishing something,
 then the high-d might just be the person you want on that task, on that problem, on that situation.
 They love to knock things out. They love to get things done. You don't want to hide
 D on a two-year-long project that they're the one who's focused on the project. You want to hide
 D on something that they can get accomplished in a shorter period of time of possible.
 Something that might carry a decent amount of conflict for other folks, but for them,
 it's something that they would enjoy. They would like that conflict of having a timeline, a deadline,
 a level of pressure of getting the thing done. Another thing that we see with the high-d
 is that many times, and I'm pleased, do not mean to hear me say, "I'm not saying that high-d's
 make the best leaders, I'm not saying all high-d's need to be leaders." That's not what I'm saying
 at all. But there are 10 to be leadership qualities that we find with the high-d
 leadership qualities of helping other people to accomplish things, leading people to accomplishing
 something, leading people to understand how to get something done faster, or what are great priorities
 on accomplishing the project instead of putting other things in the way and being distracted. So many
 times we'll find that there are really good leadership qualities that a high-d will have that will
 help other people get things done. The truth is, when you look at the other personality styles, many
 times they don't have a problem being led by a high-d, they just have a problem if the high-d is immature
 and not sharing lots of information. Another great aspect is that they have determination.
 So for a lot of high-d's, the thing is going to get done. They are determined to make it happen. So
 if something goes wrong, they'll find a way around it. If there's a roadblock, they'll either go through
 it or find a way around it or find a way to go under it, or whatever, they're determined to get to the
 result. They will stay focused on the result, where a lot of folks, the result may not be the most
 important thing to them, maybe it's doing certain aspects of the project of the job, but the result
 doesn't seem to be that important for the high-d, they're determined to get that thing done.
 Another great aspect of the high-d personality style is the problem solving skills. Since they have
 figured out how to make things happen, many times their brain is focused on actually what it takes
 to solve the problem. So if you give them a problem or a lot of people will freeze up or not really
 understand what they need to do or just want to give in and give up for a high-d, their determination
 says, "Nope, we're going to figure this out. We're going to solve this problem. We'll do whatever it takes.
 This is going to get done." So these are all some great qualities, obviously they have a lot more
 qualities than this, but things that we are trying to leverage, these are great aspects of the
 high-d personality style that we want to leverage. If we can leverage these strengths on a team,
 then not only do we accomplish goals with the individual high-d, but we can accomplish
 team goals even better, possibly faster. Again, keep in mind, there's also the possibility of the
 lack of details and the conflict in communication. If we're taking advantage of the strengths and
 we're working to overcome those weaknesses, if you will, then a great thing happens, we're able to
 achieve team goals. What do we do to resolve conflicts that come up between a high-d in some other styles?
 Well, first thing we want to do is we want to gain great perspective from all parties involved,
 from all angles, what's the conflict, what's going on. We cannot leave conflicts and result,
 because eventually it will just faster and become a much bigger issue. So what we want to do is
 find out what is the details, what's the perspectives on the situation? Tell me, tell me all about the conflict,
 what happened, who said what, what's the thing? What are we saying that the conflict actually is?
 Now, if the conflict is the high-d's fault, then what we want to do is we want to start helping the
 high-d understand how important people are. Even if it's not their fault, you still need to help them
 understand how important team members are, how important quality communication is, how important
 setting up people for successes, how important living in the other direction of team members is,
 these are all things that we need to lead the high-d on to help them to resolve conflict. Another thing
 you need to do is help them to take responsibility for their own actions. Now, I will tell you there is a
 favorite saying among high-d's. Do it and ask for forgiveness later. I will tell you that's not okay,
 that is not okay. Why? Because the high-d gets what they want and then we have to send out the
 eyes, asses and sees to clean up the mess. And so it ends up impacting other people in a negative way.
 For the high-d in their mind, but the thing got done, so what if other people have to deal with some of
 this stuff? For me and my book, that's not acceptable. So that is one of the things that will shoot down
 immediately. If we're going to resolve conflicts, then we have to help the high-d come to place of
 understanding that dumping their mess on somebody else just so that they can accomplish their goal is not okay.
 They have to understand that people matter. So as you help a high-d mature, and they recognize that
 people matter and people's feelings matter, and that people are good at getting things done, and they
 can if they treat people well, then great, we all get what we want, then what you start to see is a
 high-d that grows in the understanding of how important people are. They will be less confrontational,
 they will be less dominant, and they will start to recognize that if they lean in the direction of other
 people, then they can get the things done that they want to get done while helping and serving others.
 So what I want to encourage you with is for those of you that are not a high-d, I want you to reflect
 on ways that you can better communicate with that high-d. What does it take for you and your
 personality, so first you need to understand you, but what does it take for you to be able to lean in the
 direction of a high-d? What does it take for you to convince yourself, set the high-d up for success
 with communication? Process through that, think about that, reflect on that. For you high-d listeners,
 here's what I really want you to focus on, focus on understanding how you contribute to conflict.
 Now, a lot of you are going, you already know that, okay, then how do we fix it? How do we stop it?
 How do we make sure that we're not creating so much conflict? That instead we're leaning in the
 direction of other people and setting them up for success in communication. And if they're trying to
 communicate to us, how do we make sure that we are prepared for it? We're able to receive it,
 that we're helping them and guiding them on how we best receive information if we're high-d.
 That's one of the best things I do with my personality style is I will help people to understand,
 here's how I receive information really well. So if you're going to tell me this,
 this and this, here's the best way to tell it to me. So how do we help other people to understand
 your personality style? Now, again, I cannot stress the importance of knowing and operating in
 personality styles. It is the thing that we hear over and over again from clients of saying,
 you know, we used to think that our communication was great, but man, once we put this stuff in
 place, we discovered that our communication before was actually chaotic, it was chaos. We've heard that
 so many times with businesses, that's why we help so many businesses to learn first that communication
 is your number one issue inside of your business. Not having high levels of quality communication,
 is your biggest issue. So if you will put this stuff in place, we have got plenty of profiles,
 disc profiles, values, profiles, we've got the personality styles video, which is a lesson of me teaching
 specifically further in depth on the personality styles, what it's like when they work together,
 all that kind of fun and stuff, all of that is in the Chrisocardo store. So trust me, get this in place.
 Well, Chris, I don't have a team. I don't have a business. Do you have a family? You want to
 understand each member of your family and how to communicate to each other and how to lean each other's
 directions? So go to Chrisocardo.com/store and we've got a bunch of different products in there,
 different versions of it. You know, some that we got some leadership packages in there, all kinds
 of stuff for you to get started today. So once again, what are we looking at when it comes to the
 ID, recognize the hideeys ability to be direct, to be dominant, to be decisive, to be somebody who steps
 in and takes leadership, to be somebody who has great abilities to lead people to success on
 a completing a goal or team tasks, but also understand the negative signs, the aspects of that
 hidee that may cause a lot of conflict with other team members that may appear to not care, that may appear to
 actually just want their own ways. If you understand these aspects of the different personality styles,
 if you understand this about that hidee, then you can start leaning in the direction of
 that personality style. If you can appreciate the diversity in other people, then there's an amazing
 thing that happens. Over and over and over, we've had people say, "Man, I just hate this person that
 I work with. I never like this person, yet I gotta get it." When we helped them to understand the
 personality style, they go, "Oh, well now that totally makes sense." The whole deal is they didn't
 like this person or hated this person because they didn't understand the person. The more that we
 can appreciate the diversity in the personality styles around us, the more that we can lean in their
 direction. We don't want to become them. We want to be the best version of us, but we can lean in the
 direction to understand them, help them to understand us, and then absolutely win with communication.
 So here's what we would love to know. We want to know your experiences. We want to know your insights.
 We want to know your questions that are related to personality styles and to conflict the resolution.
 So here's what we would love for you to do. Email us podcast@crystallcurdow.com.
 Send us that information. We want to hear from you. We want to hear your funny stories. We want to hear
 your struggles. Whatever it is, we want your questions. Send us to us podcast@crystallcurdow.com,
 and we would love to be able to help out even more. Share some of these insights with other folks.
 Well folks, that's all the time that we have for today. Again, I hope this was very helpful. I know a
 lot of folks struggle with the high-d personality style and our intimidated by the high-d personality style,
 but if you focus on the things that we talked about today, that should affect your communication
 with the high-d immensely that should help you to become more comfortable or understanding,
 and lean in the direction you can set it with more. As always, take this information,
 change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]