 On today's episode, we are diving into the world of team dynamics and leadership.
 We'll be exploring the journey from combativeness to collaboration with N-Tames.
 That is coming up next.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today we're talking about the topic of leading teams from combativeness to collaboration.
 So let me kind of set the stage, give an overview of what this looks like.
 Now we all know it, it doesn't take much.
 It doesn't take a lot of imagination. I know you've all probably experienced this.
 But we need to really recognize how much combativeness can lead to tension,
 how it can lead to incredible communication breakdowns, how when we have folks that are struggling,
 that they're not collaborating, when they're, when they're combatant,
 when they're going at each other, when they're struggling with each other,
 here's what I want you to understand as a leader.
 You are getting at the very best 50% of those team members in their work productivity.
 Why? Because think about this, who wants to be in a combative state?
 Now there are some people who actually do want to be in a combative state and they thrive in that.
 But that's not what we want inside of our teams.
 And the crazy thing is most people don't want to be in that state on our teams.
 Many times they feel like they have to be. Or many times because of lack of understanding and
 communication, lack of understanding people, personality styles.
 We end up in this place where we have this conflict, where we feel like we have to be in some sort of
 competition, right? That we have to combat other people's desires or feel like their priorities are
 more important than ours or our priorities have to be better than it, you get the idea.
 You understand the concept. Collaboration on the other hand actually promotes innovation.
 It actually helps by creating open communication. And there's no doubt whenever we find that we are
 collaborating as a team or even just a couple of people that we have a much more positive work at
 misfear. Now hopefully you've experienced that. Hopefully you've got that in your culture right now.
 But if you don't, then I'm telling you this is something to strive for. Because the more collaboration you
 have, believe it or not, the less expense you have on team members.
 Now I'm just talking about that from the payroll side. I literally mean that the more collaboration
 you have, the more productivity you have from team members. Because team members aren't stuck in this place
 of feeling like they've got to hide from somebody else or not want to get into conversations or not
 want to work with somebody on a project or something that's going on because they know that the
 moment that they do they're just going to run into this brick wall. So the goal is we want to create
 collaboration inside of our workplace and side of our teams so that we can create a much more positive
 atmosphere and we can get a heck of a lot more productivity out of our team members. Now what do we do to
 adapt our communication? How do we get to a place of kind of understanding this? So we have got to
 understand that quite often people default to a competitive mindset. Quite often especially in the
 workplace what we find is that people don't naturally lean in the direction of collaboration. Now
 there's plenty of people that do. There's plenty of people that are depending upon your personality
 down sometimes we will find that somebody's going to be more collaborative than others. But I can tell you
 in my decades of leading leaders and working with business entrepreneurs and all this type of stuff,
 one of the things that I have seen over and over and over again is individuals desires to
 focus only on themselves. I know shocking surprising people can be selfish and self-centered.
 But what I'm talking about is people inside of the same teams, leaders inside of the same businesses,
 that get this competitive mindset. It's all about them, their role, their team, winning.
 It is this mindset that crazy enough, it's like control. It's an illusion. What are you actually
 winning when you're being competitive with somebody else who's just doing their own thing?
 Where's the competition here, right? So what we need to understand about this competitive mindset
 is quite often it creates one of the worst things inside of any business and that is what we call
 silos or even some people might even refer to them as islands. People who are so focused on only
 their area or their role or leaders, you take a leadership team, we see this a lot with brand new teams
 coming into a strat plan that there's a lot of silos on a leadership team that there are people
 who are really focused about just make my area work. Don't get in trouble, don't get caught up in
 somebody else's stuff, keep your head down, bust out your own thing. Why is that such a problem?
 Because of multiple reasons, whenever you create silos from this competitive mindset,
 inside of your team or inside of your business, you've just lost a lot of your resources.
 What do I mean by that? Well, we call it the shotgun approach. When you have multiple people
 focusing only on their areas, then their areas the only thing that matters. So what does that mean
 about the destination that we're trying to hit? We're not all working in a unified direction.
 We're not all working together under a common goal to solve the company's vision.
 Instead, every single silo has its own vision, has its own destination, is only worried about itself.
 Isn't concerned about the success of other areas unless those areas affect them and then it's
 really you need to fix you so that I can do my thing right? This is what happens with a competitive
 mindset. You can see it within, it doesn't even have to be a complete team or a team leader can just be
 individuals. There's many times I've had people in my early years of leading, I can think of two people
 that I hired that I to this day decades later still regret because of how focused on themselves
 they were and how destructive they were to the rest of the team and how much they impact the rest of
 the team. They're competitive mindset, they're self-focused created this process that created a
 combativeness among the team. Where other team members didn't want to work with them,
 didn't want to have to do anything with it, didn't want to be on the same projects,
 didn't want to support them, right? They didn't want to work with other folks, they just wanted to get
 their thing done and try and use other people to do their work for them so that they can accomplish the
 things that they were trying to accomplish. As I discovered those things it was something not needed to
 squash immediately and focus heavily on nurturing a collaboration between the everybody on the team.
 Those folks and these are two different individuals at slightly different times actually kind of
 overlap to actually and helping them to really focus on what does it look like to collaborate with
 other personality styles, other people in other areas of the team or other people with other strengths on
 the team. By nurturing that collaboration I had to help these folks, all of them, everybody involved
 the two silos, the two islands, plus all the other team members that didn't operate like they did.
 I had to help everybody to see that it required a different approach that what they were currently doing
 wasn't working out, that what they needed to do was start to take a look at what is our team focus,
 what should the team dynamic look like, what is the vision that we're trying to accomplish,
 how does every role accomplish that vision and what does it look like to work together?
 So for me and for you as a leader you play a very crucial role in transforming the team dynamics.
 You have to foster collaboration. Now we'll tell you in the very beginning many of my team
 members wanted me to just fire these guys and they're just like, just get rid of them, they suck.
 We don't want to work with them. Instead what I needed to do because I had taken on these team
 members and somehow I missed in that interview process that they were going to be all in. You can't
 interview everything out, but that gave me a whole lot of understanding for the next few decades of
 interviewing and hiring people. What I had to do was work on how do we work together, how do I get out
 of the competitive, combative team members, this thing that they keep doing which is only focusing on
 themselves and using other people to try to accomplish their goals and how do I get out of the other
 team members, this breakdown the brick walls, there's no way I'm working with that person. I'm not going
 to do anything for them because I don't care about them. How do I help them come together and work together?
 So as a leader, you have to understand this is your job. At the end of the day, everybody still did their
 roles well, but if they only focused on their roles individually, then I wasn't accomplishing and the
 team wasn't accomplishing the vision for the team, the destination for the team. So I had to come
 alongside and help the islands recognize they aren't going to have a job long if they decide that they
 don't need anybody else and they're a gender's the only important gender and not following the
 team of genders, the things that we're trying to accomplish and I had to help the other team members
 recognize that we still needed these other folks on the team if they were willing to collaborate.
 So part of what I had to do was go through and have some very tough conversations with people
 to say, listen, you work for me. You don't work for yourself. I hired you to help us accomplish
 this goal, this vision, this destination, or these destinations. I hired you to come onto this
 team and be a part of what we are trying to accomplish. So if you can become a we instead of just a
 you, then guess what, you get to stay here. I had to have some of those tough conversations. I also had to
 have conversations with other folks going, hey listen, we need to have a little bit of grace. We need to
 lean in their direction. It doesn't mean that you allow them to be controlling or abusive or
 manipulative or any of that stuff, but instead recognize this is going to be a process. This is going
 to take us a while to get to collaboration. We would have team meetings where we would talk through
 in the meetings, struggles that we were experiencing. Yes, there were some conflict in there.
 Yes, this was difficult for some folks, but it allowed us as a team to work through the struggles
 that we were experiencing. And the more that we pressed through these difficulties, right? Because what
 happened is we didn't just have anybody just pop up and go, I'm out. I want to be gone. Everybody wanted
 to be there. Everybody wanted to continue on. They just didn't know how to. So it became my job to
 make sure that I set up the opportunities for them to grow. And the more that we did this, it took
 a while. I will tell you in the early phases, one of the islands, silos, if you will, moved
 in the direction of collaboration pretty quickly. Because he realized if I don't do this, well,
 I'm probably not going to have a job and these people aren't going to help me be successful. The other
 one took a little bit longer. They made, they made strides. They would go back a little bit, but eventually
 what happened is they recognized if they cared about the other people, then those people were
 there to support them. The more we came together, the more we collaborated, and interesting
 thing happened. Not only were we all on the same page and moving in the same direction, but all of a sudden,
 because people felt like they cared about each other. People felt like there wasn't this combativeness,
 there wasn't this competition, there weren't silos anymore. Something interesting started to happen.
 They became more innovative. They decided that they could trust each other. And instead of just
 doing the job, they started working on how do we do the job better. Now, this did not happen overnight.
 Please understand, you're not going to get your team from combativeness to collaboration overnight. This
 took months of making this happen. And for some of you out there, you're like, "I'd have just fired
 people." Well, okay, well, that's probably not your best leadership style, right? Of just firing people.
 Because we worked on this, it turned the team around to where they started working together to solve
 things together. They had much better relationships. It was an way better positive working relationship
 in an environment. I mean, I can't tell you how much it changed the tone. But it took a lot of work
 and effort to make that happen. The great thing is, is by the team working together, we were able to grow
 some of our products and services, leaps and bounds. What it took was helping team members
 understand the importance of collaboration, helping team members understand how they're different.
 How they see each other differently, how they operate differently, helping team members understand
 that other team members matter. One of the biggest pieces that I had to really push over and over and
 over again is nobody on this team is more important than anybody else. Instead, what you have to
 understand is, without the other team members, your role doesn't exist. You're not needed. So if you
 believe that you're the most important person, then try and do your job without anybody else, it's
 what happens. Believe it or not, over time, they came to understand, crap, I better get in line
 because these are the folks that are helping me to be successful. If I don't treat them well,
 then what's going to happen with my role. It's going to make my role 10 times more difficult.
 So it's a process. It can be very painful. It can take a very long time, understand all those aspects.
 But at the end of the day, as you create and foster a team of collaboration, you're going to be
 absolutely blown away by how much more productivity you get. Now let me bump it back up to the
 team leaders. For those of you that have a leadership team and you have a group of leaders that may be
 silos, they may not be against each other, they may just be focused on only doing what they think is
 necessary for them to be successful. Here's the problem. They are one of the resources in your business.
 So if you've got five team members, leaders that are leading five teams, you've got five different
 resources. If they're all only focused on taking care of their area, then how in the world
 are you utilizing your resources to the best of your ability? How in the world are you pointing
 five silos in the same direction? You're not. The goal is you have to bring them together and foster
 an open communication, a vulnerability and ability to care about other people and ability to step in and
 help other leaders and other areas and their teams so that we accomplish the same goals. How does
 every one of those teams align with the straw plan, with the strategy, the destination of where we're
 headed? How does every one of those teams help us to accomplish our strategy to get to our destination?
 SILOD, they're going at it different ways, five different ways. Together, operating as a
 phenomenal leadership team, operating as a leadership team that collaborates together,
 then we are moving in the same direction and understanding that I have to help everybody else around
 be successful just as much as I need to help me. If we take on these tasks, these goals, these problems,
 these opportunities together, now we're really utilizing the brain power, the brain trust of all
 of these leaders. Now we're really accomplishing things. That collaboration will blow you away as far
 as what you can do as a business. We just live that way here. That's just the way that we think
 the way that we operate is together. We realize that everybody on the team is smart,
 everybody has input, everybody is here to help everybody else out. Everybody serves each other.
 Everybody knows there's one thing that does not fly around here and that's the saying, well that's not my job.
 We jump in, we do this together, we move in the same direction. If we have silos which we just don't,
 but if we were to have silos, we would crush that in a heartbeat. Get your butt back on track,
 get in here, work together, help each other solve problem, solve issues, solve opportunities,
 solve growth. Let's get to that next destination together. Now, what are some team-building
 exercises that you can do? I just encourage you. There's all kind of, you can go on the Google.
 You can go online and look up all types of team-building opportunities. The things that we like to do,
 many times is to do games or things that require, nobody to have a title,
 and then watch how people step into specific roles. Then have big discussions afterwards about
 now what did you do this? Why not? I noticed you stepped up and led this. I noticed you didn't do anything
 over here. We really like to take activities like, I don't know, something ridiculous. Hey, build the
 tallest building out of 100 straws and 100 pins. Whatever. Do this thing, but you don't give them a
 title. Nobody has a role. Here's the thing. Here's the time limit. You guys have to work on this
 together. You have to decide, give them some parameters. You have to decide what type of building it is.
 You have to decide what the maximum width it can be, whatever, but we're looking for height. You could
 decide that it has to have something on top of it. Put a specific structure on whatever it is.
 Then allow them to work together to see which direction people go, which people jump in and lead,
 which people sit back and don't do anything. How do the ideas flow? How do the communication flow?
 And then you debrief the daylights out of it. Again, there's all kinds of
 team building exercises that you can do. We do them every retreat with all the business owners and
 leaders that come into our retreats here in Tennessee. We will have them go through team building exercises
 so that they can see what is it like to work with other folks that I'm not working with normally.
 You know, these are all different leaders from around the country. What is it like to work in
 the situation and what are the different personalities styles? How do they respond? And then we debrief
 with all kinds of questions. What was that experience like? What did you take away from this?
 What do you feel like you could have done better? What was it like when somebody did take a leadership role?
 Did anybody, you know, not step up and do what they should have done or participated? How did you
 guys decide on how tall this was going to be? What the shape was? The way that you put these
 straws together. As we walk through those pieces, what tends to happen is, as people start to
 recognize what it's like to work with a team in a collaborative style or in a combat of style,
 depending upon how well they did. And we can start to translate that in, what does that look like when
 we are doing X project here? What does that look like when you know, pick a project that people are
 currently working on? So if we apply this to this project that you guys are supposed to get done in the
 next three weeks, how could we do that better? How could we do more productive? How could we utilize
 our resources better? And that allows you to ask a ton of questions driving them to conclusions
 on what collaboration looks like? Obviously you fill in the gaps. You fill in the different pieces and
 go, this is what we're looking for here, this is great, this is great, these are things we don't want
 all of that type of information helping them to understand how much better it works being collaborative.
 Now you can also redo the project with them. Now that we've walked through this and we've
 experienced what if it's a class of failure? What if they didn't do good at all? What if they just
 really sucked? Great. Now that we've talked through this and we've learned these things, let's do it again.
 Here's your pins, here's your straws, go at it. How could you make this better?
 You utilize the things that you've learned and let's get in there and build this again. So Chris,
 this is all great, this is all fine and well, but what if my team just doesn't trust each other?
 That is a big massive point of collaboration, right? So your job as a leader is to foster and
 nurture trust within your team or your teams. How do we do this? It starts by helping people
 recognize that they can be vulnerable. I need to know before I'm ever vulnerable with you,
 I need to know that I can trust you with my vulnerability. How do I do that? Well, usually you share
 some level of vulnerability that helps me to know that I can trust you. So what we may have to do is have
 conversations with the teams about what is it like to be vulnerable and what does it look like to
 not take advantage of that and not lose that trust? The more you help people to recognize that they
 can be vulnerable with each other, that they can trust people with their vulnerability,
 the more they'll want to collaborate together, the more that they will trust that somebody's not
 going to treat them badly or throw them under the bus or rip their head off, right? So this is a
 very active piece for you. This may be conversation at the conversation after conversation.
 It may be you going to some of the people that people may not trust the most and say, hey, listen,
 let's talk about what it means to earn the trust of your team members. What does it look like
 for you to share some vulnerability so that they can receive you as somebody they can trust?
 So this is something that you've got to foster within the teams. If you can do this and people can
 start having quality discussions or maybe on the backside of trust being broken, you break down
 what happened and help those to overcome to fix that conflict, to get the offending party,
 to recognize that they broke somebody's trust and to take responsibility and to apologize for it
 and to work really hard to regain that trust. Yes, leader. I know it seems like, man, I just don't
 want to have to do all that. I get it, but when you do and your success, what you will discover is
 that your team members will operate differently. They will collaborate more. You will have much more
 innovation, you will have much more productivity, you have a much more positive work environment.
 So listen, we've talked about this and the big aspects here are personality styles.
 What we need to recognize is that working with different personality styles can be conflict,
 not understanding personality styles can be conflict, not recognizing why somebody seems to be competitive
 or combative. Obviously, it's going to be conflict. Here's what I want you to do. I want you to get
 into our store, Chrislicer.com/door and get discs, values, the things that you need to really
 increase your communication to high levels of quality communication. Communication or the lack of
 communication is the number one reason why businesses fail. It is the number one thing we see with
 every business coming into our programs. It's the number one struggle that they have. It's the number one
 issue. By far, communication is the number one issue. So when people implement disc values,
 we have the personality styles video that's a lesson that you sit down with your whole team and watch
 through this and learn together. People love it. It is amazing how many times we've heard people talk
 about how they're elbowing each other because they're like, "Yeah, he's talking about you right there."
 You know, nope, he's talking about you about how much it helps them to come together and understand each
 other and how much more it helps those who have misunderstood other folks to get to a place of
 recognizing. Oh, this isn't something that's wrong with you. You're just different than I am. And I need
 to lean in your direction. So make sure if you have not gotten disc at the bare minimum disc into your
 business, get it done. I'm going to tell you you should do the disc plus, which has the values as well,
 helps you to understand what motivates team members. Definitely get the personality styles video
 sit down with your team, watch through this process and then discuss it. You will start to see collaboration
 grow immensely because people will start to recognize the thing that's been holding them back,
 which is understanding other folks. So at the end of the day, what do we want to do? We don't want to
 just go fire people. We don't want to just get rid of people because we're finding some combat
 ofness or some competitiveness instead. What we want to do is we want to help people to understand that they
 need each other. We want to help people understand how other people think, how they act, react,
 how they give information, how they receive information. We want to help people to understand
 that the more we collaborate, the more we work together, lean in each other's direction,
 the more I can accomplish the thing that I'm tasked to do. And the more we actually had an unified
 direction, the more we all went, everybody wins when we are moving in a unified direction.
 Well folks, we would love to hear from you. We want to know your experiences and situations like this.
 We want to know your insights. We want to know your questions. So do us a favor, send us an email at
 podcast@crystallicurto.com. That's podcast@crystallicurto.com. Give us your insights. Tell us what
 you've experienced. Tell us how you've solved things like this. Ask us questions we want to hear from you.
 Well that's all the time that we have for today. I hope this information is helped you on the
 insulin. As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]