 On today's episode, leading families conflict to community.
 Jonas, as we navigate the journey from discord to unity within families, that is coming up next.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life.
 And discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today, we're diving deep into a topic that is very, very close to home.
 Transformation from conflict to community within families.
 It is a journey that is both challenging and rewarding.
 Now, as I say that you're probably thinking to yourself, how do you go from conflict to community?
 Why is community the direction you're heading to?
 Well, we're going to get into that.
 The thing I want to talk about first is this conflict within families not only leads to tension,
 but also can absolutely lead to strange relationships.
 Well, no duh, Chris.
 I've had that.
 I've experienced that.
 You're not telling me anything new.
 I get it.
 But here's a deal.
 So much of the reason why we have strained relationships from conflict is because we don't
 have quality, community, and open dialogues ahead of time.
 Instead we have our positions in relationships, we have our positions in family, we
 spend certain time together, we experience each other in certain ways.
 And unfortunately, because we don't have great communication, because we don't have understanding
 of each other really well.
 What do you mean?
 I understand that my siblings are jerk.
 I understand that my aunt or uncle is just doesn't care about me.
 I understand that my mom and dad are just controlling.
 The key is understanding where the person is coming from.
 If we are ever going to have great community and what do we know about great community, great
 community cuts down on conflict, great community cuts down on strained relationships.
 If we can understand these things, then we can make a shift from having conflict, having tension
 to actually being able to have open dialogues, even if they have healthy conflict in them,
 to create family bonds.
 Now as I talk through this, I want to throw a caveat into this.
 If you're experiencing a highly abusive, a highly controlling, a highly manipulative person,
 then this probably is not going to be the thing that solves everything and brings the greatest
 family bonds.
 So if that's the situation that you're experiencing, I still want you to try what we're talking
 about today, but I also want to make sure that you have healthy boundaries that protect
 you in the process.
 So that you don't go in thinking, "Oh, I'm just going to create great community with this abusive
 person and they're just going to stop being the way that they are."
 There's probably going to need to be a lot more than that involved in the situation.
 So that's my caveat.
 So if you're experiencing that, then yes, this may be a little bit difficult to experience with
 that person or people, depending on what you have in your family.
 Still want you to try it.
 Still want you to see what you can do, put at the same time, make sure that you're keeping
 healthy boundaries and that you aren't allowing yourself to get pummeled in the process
 of trying to create better family bonds.
 But for everybody else, listen, this is something we need to do.
 If we want to create better relationships, if we want to get past conflict and not just leave
 conflict open, then one of the things we have to do is have open dialogue.
 Not threatening dialogue, not accusatory dialogue, not setting somebody's reality, but instead
 perspective gathering.
 The ability to talk to somebody about something and find out what their perspective of the conflict
 is, what they're experiencing in the conflict.
 Now as we get into adapting our communication, one of the things I want to talk about is how
 often family members and it certainly sometimes resort to a very competitive mindset with
 dealing with issues.
 What I mean by that.
 Well for some family members, when a conflict comes up or one issue comes up, what we see is this
 desire to control this desire to win.
 Here's this issue.
 We're now going to argue about it and my goal is to win the argument.
 We now have a problem.
 We now have an issue.
 I must win so that I feel good about myself.
 Now what we need to recognize in these situations, and I know this is tough because you're probably
 struggling with a lot of the same stuff in this moment.
 And it's difficult to get out of the emotional effects that you have while this is going
 on.
 But I want you to really try and remove yourself out of this.
 That's where I always tell people, watch it like a movie.
 You know that this person is going to respond to specific way.
 Don't be surprised.
 Don't be shocked.
 Instead, try to watch it like a movie, knowing what they're going to do.
 So instead of you being emotionally handcuffed to the conflict or emotionally handcuffed to the
 issue, instead you recognize what the other person is doing.
 And it may be what the other person is struggling with.
 Then how do you help?
 Because when you just get an embattle, what are you doing?
 You're adding to the conflict.
 You're not actually helping.
 You're just creating more conflict.
 Well, but that person's doing something.
 Yeah, I get it.
 I understand.
 How about we take the high road here?
 How about we start with us and see if we can't lead somebody else to take in the high road
 as well?
 So if you are going to aid a family member, create good community so that you can get rid of
 conflict, one of the first things you have to do is recognize when, how and why people
 add to conflict.
 When you can see somebody is struggling with a specific topic or the way that something is
 presented.
 You know, something that I have had to realize in my life is that while I'm a very high
 personality style, one of the things that I've had to realize is that I can go into task
 mode on things.
 And so when I go into task mode, I'm somebody who usually has a lot of things going on, a lot
 of things processing in my mind.
 So when I go to task mode, sometimes I will look at something and let's say, I don't know,
 I'm going to have to report a certain type of creamer in their coffee.
 And my brain goes to, what did they just do that?
 My brain doesn't go to, I need to be super complimentary or super personable.
 I'm in task mode.
 I'm thinking in my brain right now, I wonder why they poured that creamer in their coffee.
 Now, this is just a lame example, but follow me.
 So I have had to come to realize that many times I will go, hey, what did you just
 pour that in there?
 And the way that I say it sounds like they did something wrong?
 And if I don't recognize that I'm in task mode asking a question about something, hey, what
 did you just pour that in there?
 Because I want to know then what can happen is the person can respond as though they did something
 wrong or they did something stupid.
 So if I will understand, what did you just pour that in there?
 And they go, because I like this creamer.
 Yeah, but why that specific creamer?
 I'm sorry, was it supposed to grab something else?
 Was I supposed to, I'll never use this creamer?
 No, no, no, no, I'm just wanting to know why you poured that one in there.
 What I've had to discover is my perspective gathering questioning sometimes can sound
 like it's accusing somebody of doing something wrong.
 And there's absolutely no desire to accuse somebody of doing something wrong.
 I'm just in a task brain at that moment.
 Many times I'm a very logical thinker, so sometimes because I'm constantly wanting to know
 why people do stuff and asking questions and learning and growing, then sometimes I go straight
 to the logic.
 That creamer went into that coffee, why that specific one?
 Why not this one over here?
 So I'm looking for actually the logic side behind the choice in the person.
 But if I don't recognize that my way of asking it can come across to somebody else as a
 accusatory as though they did something wrong, then guess what's going to happen.
 That person's going to become very defensive.
 Is that person could become very offensive at that point?
 It would become very attacky, right?
 The key is recognizing I need to take responsibility in adjust what I'm asking.
 So there's times I had to go, I'm so sorry, let me ask that another way.
 Hey, I notice you chose that type of creamer just for my perspective gathering.
 I just loved to understand what was it about that creamer that you decided to choose that.
 And once I change the way that I pose the question, it takes away any defensiveness from the person.
 So quite often, I just think about this ahead of time.
 I know I'm going in this direction.
 I know I'm going to ask a question a certain way.
 And often, I will stop myself asking it in a very nice, personal way.
 Sometimes I still don't.
 I have to catch when I'm in that task mode and if I've already set somebody off in a bad direction.
 Because I think I'm accusing them of something.
 I have to back up.
 I'm so sorry, that came out the wrong way.
 Let me ask it this way.
 Reset my question and then we can move forward.
 What am I telling you?
 Many times you need to recognize when somebody is struggling and what caused it.
 Maybe it's something you said.
 Maybe it's a question that you asked.
 Maybe it's a tone that you had.
 Maybe it's their reading your body posture and they aren't realizing that you've also got
 something else on your mind that you're struggling with.
 So any of these things can set somebody off.
 If we will take responsibility in a just our communication and change our mindset and communicate
 in a way that is loving and kind and leans in the direction of the other person, then we're
 already starting on the right foot.
 Now what about the other person?
 Well, if you can recognize that you struggle from time to time with stuff like this, is it
 possible for you to recognize that maybe the other person is struggling in that moment?
 So one of the things I try to do and I don't do this 100% of the time, but I do it a lot.
 Is I try to recognize is the other person, does it appear as though they're struggling with
 something right now?
 Now, I just asked this question and I'm not getting the response that I was expecting.
 I was just expecting a nice response and this response seems to be one of Anglish, you know,
 one of struggle.
 So I'll ask myself, what is this person struggling with?
 Is it me that I say something the wrong way?
 Can I, can I, can I refray?
 Is, can I reset this?
 Or is it possible this person's feeling out of control?
 Is it possible that the personality style I'm speaking to receives information differently?
 Maybe I didn't lean in their direction?
 Maybe as a high S, I'm speaking to a high C.
 The way that I just said something, they didn't receive it very well and that's why they're
 responding the way that they did.
 Maybe I'm speaking to a high, high, high in the way that I said something seemed like I was attacking.
 Whatever it is, if I can really focus on understanding what somebody is experiencing in the
 moment and then adjusting my communication to it, even by taking responsibilities fast as possible.
 But they should be able to just, you know, understand that I wasn't doing it.
 No, no, no, no, no.
 We're looking to win here.
 We're looking to create good community, great conversation.
 We're looking to help each other.
 We're looking to be able to get to the place where we can understand each other better.
 So let's start with this.
 What does it look like to adjust my communication with this person or these people?
 The more that I can do this, this helps the person to recognize I care.
 This helps the person to recognize that I'm trying.
 Great thing is, most of the time, with folks, they will recognize how they are not.
 So if you're working hard to make the best communication happen and they're still struggling
 then a lot of times they will make that adjustment.
 Sometimes they won't keep working, but a lot of times they will.
 The key is, as you make the adjustments, that it helps you to start to pay attention more
 to them instead of your future response.
 If you are handcuffed to the situation, if you're emotionally handcuffed to what's going
 on, then guess what you're focused on, what you're going to say next.
 If you're prioritizing what they are experiencing, then it can help you to really dig into,
 what do I think is going on, what can I do differently, how can I adjust this?
 So this is important for us to recognize, especially if it's a different personality style,
 how do we set them up for success in this conversation?
 If we can do this, this will drive us to the types of conversation that will allow us to
 be in stronger community and have stronger family bonds instead of being in conflict.
 So what if you are one of the family leaders?
 What does the role of leadership look like in family situations that are we're trying to
 diminish conflict or trying to help have the best community?
 First thing you have to recognize is why is community so important?
 Because a leader, the more we see people operating in quality community, the more we see people
 being healed in feeling healthy.
 So here's an interesting thing.
 As we do a lot of trauma research and things that to understand trauma, and I'm talking about
 legitimate trauma, not you almost built your coffee and now it's traumatic and you're
 afraid to have coffee anymore.
 That's what I'm talking about.
 I'm talking about legitimate situations.
 And what here's what we have discovered, some of the studies have shown that one of the best ways
 to heal somebody who has experienced trauma, believe it or not, is in community.
 A great way inside of that community is communal dancing, singing, enjoying each other.
 Anytime somebody who's come from trauma is actually able to heal a lot, if not all of that
 trauma, over time this isn't how you went to one communal dance and you know, it fixed you.
 But instead the ability to get in an experienced good quality community builds faith, trust,
 acceptance, vulnerability inside of the person that experienced trauma.
 Now for a lot of us living in America, we don't even know what that looks like.
 I've done a decent amount of study on the blue zones.
 If you don't know what the blue zones are, these are the six areas in the world that have the highest
 number of centenarians, people who live over 100 years old.
 It is incredible to me, the number of blue zones that have this every single one of them has
 a phenomenal community aspect to it, every one of the blue zones.
 There's all these different key things that they all have in common.
 One of those things is their community.
 The belief that the people that they are spending life with have their back.
 Another great aspect that I've noticed, this isn't something that's been reported.
 But the things as I've done the studies on this, I've noticed in many of these communities,
 they have times of getting together and having meals and dancing and singing.
 It's just this incredible time of coming together as a community.
 In America, we might think that is absolutely ridiculous.
 You're not getting me out there to do that kind of stuff.
 That's crazy.
 I would be embarrassed.
 I would be yada yada.
 Here's a funny thing.
 They're not embarrassed.
 They're not struggling.
 They enjoy it.
 They don't have a problem getting out there, dancing, singing together, having fun, sharing meals
 together.
 That is incredibly healing.
 What are we looking for inside of this family unit when it comes to community?
 We're looking for healing.
 We're looking to come together and have better family bonds.
 We're looking to come together and love each other more, understand each other more, experience
 each other in better ways.
 So what do you do as a family leader to make sure that you're helping to create this kind of harmonious
 environment?
 First thing you have to do is all the things I've talked about already.
 You have to recognize the importance of you not being emotionally handcuffed to conflict,
 not being somebody who is constantly offended by things that are going on.
 Being somebody who recognizes when people are struggling, being somebody who cares about
 talking through situations, being somebody who cares about explaining things and understanding
 that somebody is in a frame of mind where they can listen or they can't listen.
 Being somebody who cares more about other people than you care about yourself, it's your job
 as a family leader to get you out of the way so you can help the rest of the family.
 When you are focused and teaching them how not to be selfish and self-centered.
 When you are selfish and self-centered, when you are focused on you, when you are emotionally
 handcuffed to conflict, you can't possibly lead people through conflict.
 So as a leader, your role is to understand what qualities do you need to create a harmonious
 environment.
 I'll tell you one of the most important ones I think is long-suffering.
 Yes, grace is absolutely in there.
 Mercy is absolutely in there.
 Love is absolutely in there.
 But interestingly, I think one of the most important things is being long-suffering.
 Being able to deal with what's going on for a longer period of time than you normally
 would.
 Being able to understand what people are going through and what they're experiencing.
 I am a no way shape or form saying that you need to create a bunch of victims or allow people
 to be victims.
 What I'm saying is that you need to get to a place of understanding where people are coming from.
 A great quality is understanding that people are struggling, suffering, hurting, feeling
 like their victims, feeling like they're being attacked, losing worth in situations, feeling
 like you or somebody else doesn't think that they're worthy, looking for approval, looking for
 attention.
 If we can understand these aspects and we can calmly talk through stuff and ask questions,
 what are you struggling with?
 What are you experiencing in this moment?
 I've noticed that this is something that you seem to be feeling very strongly about.
 Do you think that the way that you've approached the subject is affecting the outcome that you're
 having right now?
 Whatever it is, talking through all of these aspects and helping somebody to come to understanding
 on their own is vitally important.
 That is the role of a leader.
 Making sure that you are teaching and training others of how to get to a harmonious environment.
 And then on top of this, creating the community, what does it look like to help people get to a
 place where they're experiencing life together, that they're experiencing fun things together?
 You can't do this if you're self-centered and self-focused.
 You can't do this if you're afraid of conflict.
 You can't do this if you just don't care more about other people than yourself.
 So if you can understand how to communicate and grow and lead people through conflict and
 help people to recognize that they can grow themselves and help them to recognize through
 self-reflection, that they can be a big part of strengthening these family bonds and strengthening
 this community, then maybe we can lead the whole family to a greater community.
 On top of that, it's your job as I said to create the communal aspects.
 What does it look like to come together as a family and watch a movie outside on a big screen,
 of a dance party with your family and celebrate, have big meals that we don't eat in 5.3 seconds.
 But instead, we spend hours enjoying company and there's no TV's on.
 And there's no phones ringing and there's no computers that are being played on.
 But what does it look like to actually spend time together as a family and community?
 Does it look like to honor our elders and find out how life was for them and what they experienced
 growing up and what they've experienced over the decades and learn and glean from them?
 What does it look like to just celebrate together as a family leader?
 This is part of your role.
 It's your job to help people get here.
 So, if we're going to make this happen, communication forms the backbone.
 It's the backbone of any thriving family community.
 We know that.
 Some of you have actually come from some of those families and I just appreciate it.
 I appreciate that that's something you're used to.
 I love it when we have somebody who comes to the next level of life and they're like,
 oh my gosh, our family's super strong, super communal.
 We have dinner together once a week.
 We've all moved away or we're all in different areas of the same town.
 But we come together, we do this, we do this.
 We do this every time I find that type of communal family, I find strength.
 I find energy.
 I find a lack of conflict.
 I'm not saying there isn't conflict, but I find that conflict resolution happens fast.
 Communication is super, super important.
 One of the big aspects of communication is making sure that we are fostering a space where
 everybody feels heard and feels valued.
 Now folks, there are many people that don't feel heard.
 There's many personality styles or I should say, values really, motivators, things that
 for people, they're the way that they value things in life.
 Sometimes they just don't feel heard by other people.
 You've probably experienced that person that goes, you're just not hearing me.
 You're just not listening.
 You haven't heard what I said and then you're going, yeah, I've heard everything that you've
 said.
 The issue isn't that you haven't heard them.
 The issue is that the conflict isn't going in a way where they feel heard.
 So one of the things that you need to do is whenever you find somebody doesn't feel heard
 is repeat back to them, everything that you believe they've heard don't do it with a crazy
 sarcastic attitude.
 But instead do it with love, do it with understanding.
 Hey, here's the things I've heard you say.
 This, this, this, this and this.
 Is that everything or am I missing anything?
 Is there anything I'm missing?
 What else should I have heard you say?
 If they feel heard amazingly trust builds.
 If you just keep pounding away at how you're right about everything or right about this argument
 or right about whatever, then guess what?
 They are never going to feel heard and they are definitely not going to feel valued.
 Even if it's a personality style that doesn't get stuck on feeling like they're not heard,
 it is a phenomenal technique to make sure that you're repeating back to your family members
 what you feel like they've said.
 So they feel heard and they feel valued.
 What I say back to somebody, hey, here's what I'm hearing you say.
 This, this is all that correct somebody goes, wow.
 Yep, that's exactly what I've said.
 Wow, you've listened to me.
 Great.
 Now it allows them to hear what you have to say.
 If you have something that's beneficial, it's not selfish and so centered.
 Instead, it's focused on helping them now they can hear you.
 Communication forms the backbone of any thriving family community.
 One of the most important aspects of communication is leaning into other people's direction,
 but also helping them to understand that they are heard.
 So before we continue, let me take a moment to tell you about the valuable resource available
 in our store.
 Go to crslucrilo.com/store to check out our collection on disk products.
 Folks, they are designed to enhance communication.
 They are designed to enhance teamwork.
 They're absolutely designed to help understanding within families.
 They are literally there to help you win with communication.
 Check it all out.
 We've got disks.
 We've got disk and values.
 We've got personality style video.
 We've got all the things to help you get to a place of greater communication inside of your family.
 So go to crslucrilo.com/store for more details.
 Melison, you can't ignore the things that we've talked about today.
 You've got to make progress on these.
 You've got to work on these things every single day in your life.
 You've got to work on being selfless.
 You've got to work on not being emotionally attached to the conversation, the conflict, whatever
 it is.
 You've got to be focusing on what is this person experiencing?
 How can I help them?
 How can I understand where they're coming from?
 The more you can put other people first, the more you can care more about them than you care
 about yourself, the more you can solve these aspects.
 As you do that, put things in place to celebrate family, to celebrate community, get away
 from the freaking TVs, get away from the freaking computers, get away from all the crap
 that's keeping you from having community.
 Get away from that junk and be with people.
 I don't.
 Crazy thing is to have community.
 You need to be with people.
 You spend time creating community, celebrate dance, have fun.
 Be okay with looking silly or stupid or weird.
 Celebrate.
 God wants us to celebrate as a community.
 It's what we're going to do when we leave this place and we transition into the next life.
 We're going to celebrate as a community.
 Start now.
 He wants us to start now.
 As you do that, you will absolutely transform your family.
 We'll folks, we would love to hear your stories, we would love to hear your insights, we would
 love to hear your questions.
 So please feel free to share them with us at podcast@crystallicard.com.
 Send us an email, give us information, ask us questions, share the things that you've
 experienced.
 We really do want to hear those podcast@crystallicard.com.
 Well, folks, that's all the time we have for today.
 I hope this information has helped you greatly.
 I really do hope that this is something that changes the way your family not friends.
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]