 [Music]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today we are talking about information gaps that lead to confusion and frustration in our lives,
 both personally, professionally.
 We all experience it.
 We all know what it's like to have those frustrating moments when you're communicating with somebody.
 You feel like you're communicating pretty darn well.
 You guys have heard me talk about personality styles, a ton, and we're going to get into that.
 That's mainly what we're hitting today.
 But we're talking about those gaps, those gaps lead to that frustration.
 And it's important for us to recognize because I think the thing that I experience a lot lately,
 and this is even with myself.
 I mean, I do this all the time.
 My job is continuously leaning in the direction of other people and helping to communicate incredibly well.
 But there are times that even the most simplistic communication can become frustrating because I have to take into account the personality style that I'm communicating with.
 And how am I communicating what's happening in my day?
 So I wanted to kind of run through some ways, one understanding that and what can we do about that.
 So if you think about it, there's scenarios of like team meetings.
 Everybody has been in a team meeting where somebody's not communicating well or maybe many people are not communicating well.
 Somebody is trying to give direction on something and people are struggling.
 There's lots of questions, there's lots of, I don't understand, you know, what does this mean?
 What are you wanting us to do?
 First, I should say there's also what I think is a terrible thing for any team process.
 And that is the folks that decide that they're not going to speak up because they feel stupid.
 You know, they're not going to speak up because they don't truly understand or sometimes they think, well, everybody else seems to be getting it.
 And I should be getting it. Maybe I'll understand it here, you know, in an hour or two.
 So we have these times where we're in a meeting trying to to discuss, I don't know, direction, a project that we want to accomplish, how we're going, you know, brainstorming, how are we going to do this project.
 And communication can be super frustrating and it can definitely be confusing at the very least confusing, right?
 I still don't understand where you want me to go. I still don't understand what my role is.
 And we're going to get into some of the issues with that, but one of my, it's a pet peeve, but I understand it.
 It's one of those frustrations that I have as somebody who is a very high S.
 I understand the, well, let me just hold off and not talk about that. Let me hold off and not, you know, ask any questions.
 I think the reason why it frustrates me so much is because I'm somebody who gains perspective.
 I don't have a problem asking, what does that mean?
 I don't have a problem saying, can you explain what you just shared?
 I don't have a problem getting to deeper information. Now, that has not always been my life.
 When I was younger, I did not like to ask those questions. I didn't want to get more details.
 I didn't want to get more information because, you know, I just like so many people. I didn't want to look stupid, sound stupid.
 You know, feel like I should have known the answer when, how could I possibly know the answer?
 I don't know what you taught me the answer in the first place. So it has become a pet peeve in my life to see so many people like the younger version of me that are afraid to ask.
 They're afraid to ask questions. They're afraid to gain quality perspective, so they don't.
 And then it messes with them because then they don't have the right information.
 And they're not going to ask about it. And then somebody is going to come along and you know, leaders going to come along and go, how come you're not doing the thing?
 And they're like, well, I didn't know how to do it. And I was like, why didn't you speak up in the meeting?
 And it just becomes a surface level response of where we do this thing over and over again.
 And we don't make the decision to get out of that. We don't make the decision to change that.
 And there's a reason why is because we don't really understand why we're there in the first place. And all of that's going to come back to worth issues is going to come back to root system issues.
 And I don't, I can't go into everybody's root system here today, but it's always going to point back to that. So if it's in a team meeting, let's say it's in a planning meeting.
 If we're planning a project out, if we're planning dates out, I can't tell you how many times we get together.
 Once a year we get together and we talk through different holiday schedules and things that we have coming up over the next year.
 And inevitably, we get into the next year and we go, how did we get that date wrong?
 Sometimes there's confusion in communication in planning things or there is a ton of confusion when folks are trying to do quality accountability.
 Let's say KRAs or KPI is or something. If we're not communicating really well in that, let's say we're creating a KRA in instead of getting to the expected results that we want.
 We're just putting in what sounds like really great job tasks or job descriptions.
 Well, then it's going to be super confusing to the person when you try to hold them accountable to the expected result, but you only communicated the task.
 So these are just some examples of where information gaps kind of rear their ugly heads, right?
 So we want to shed light on the challenges that they present. We want to help with the misunderstandings that they can cause.
 So that's the work aspect.
 But, and I know nobody ever deals with this at home, right?
 We never as husbands and wives. We never do what this. We never have struggles with our kids. Our kids never have struggles with us.
 Of course we do, right? Of course we struggle a lot with communication.
 You know, with husbands and wives, different personality styles. There are so many times that I have to remember like my wife and I are so close that sometimes I just take for granted that I
 don't have to communicate fully into her personality style because she gets me. She gets so much of me, but then every now and then I will communicate something and she won't get it.
 And I'm like, I don't what why don't you understand that piece. And I have to back up and go, oh wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
 She's in her seemote right now. So stop man. You got to paint a bigger picture. You got to make sure that she understands everything that you're talking about.
 Instead of just, you know, this one piece over here. And if I will back up and explain the 30,000 foot view, then she can get the five foot view.
 But what about when you're communicating with your kids? What about the, you know, the dad or mom that's sitting down to do a math problem with their child.
 And your personality style is just clash. You know, what if you're somebody who gets math super easy, super fast, and yet your child doesn't doesn't mean your child's not smart.
 It just means that they have to work through a process to get to that number or what if what if your child is struggling with, you know, pressure from you because, you know, maybe you are pushing for them to get to an answer faster than their brain can process.
 Then what happens? Well, then we have a child that climbs up. We see a lot of that. We see a lot of children, whether they are young or grown adults, you know, children of parents that struggle to communicate with their parent because their parent responds as though their child is stupid.
 That they're not good enough, that they're not fast enough. And so many times now, I do want to separate out the root system issues that go deeper than that where somebody actually does want to communicate that you're not good enough. That's not what I'm talking about today.
 What I am talking about is the misunderstanding of personality styles, these these issues that they can cause when we don't understand each other. So when we do, when we do recognize how somebody gives information receives information, how somebody acts and reacts, then we can change the way we lean in their direction.
 We can change the way that we provide information and praise God, Hallelujah. If we choose to, we can avoid a ton of conflict.
 It will help us to avoid so much conflict. So as we get into this and what I want to roll into next is kind of like understanding and adapting your communication. As we move into that, here's what I want you to hear. Please hear me. Please hear me. Please hear me.
 There's anything you get from this. Understand, you are completely in control of how you communicate. So if you are finding yourself being frustrated with a conversation, if you're finding yourself being frustrated with leading a team member, if you're finding yourself being frustrated with a leader leading you.
 If you're spouse, your kids, whatever it is, if you find yourself being frustrated, what is the natural response or the common response of most people? Stay frustrated.
 Stay frustrated, continue to push back, continue to tell the other person that they're wrong, continue to tell the other person you don't understand why they're not getting what you're saying.
 It tends to be this very selfish and self-centered response that says, you're the problem. And unfortunately, while the other person definitely is not getting the information, it could very well be your communication. It's most likely. Let me just say this.
 Before the not, it's going to be how you communicated that first bit of information. Now, with that being said, caveat is many times people don't dig in and find out they don't ask right questions all that. I completely get that and I agree if you're thinking that right now, I get that.
 Talking about what do you do about it? Do you stay frustrated? Do you continue to tell them that they're not asking the right questions? Do you continue to be a dork about it? I have been 14 billion times I've done that in my life.
 I've just discovered that when I will stop and actually think more about the other person than myself, then I can get past the communications. So the thing I want you to do is hear that get that inside of you.
 Then you are running into a communication frustration, a communication misunderstanding that I want you to first first first first ask yourself the question, I'm not communicating well enough.
 I'm not going to start with you. Again, our natural tendency is to think it's the other person's fault. It's their problem. I get it, I understand it, but don't start there.
 Start with you. The first thing to do is go, well, red flag, something is not being communicated well, I should start asking quality, not accusational questions, right?
 Not leading questions, I should try and get to an understanding of something. I should try and get to an understanding of why this isn't making sense. And what I will do is I will start asking the other person what doesn't make sense.
 Why do I do that? If you've ever heard me in a live event or anything like that or even in some interviews or discussions, I will hear me say a lot does that make sense.
 I will say that to somebody. I'll be talking about something. I'll be talking to you about that. Many clubs is explaining something on the show. I'll ask, does that make sense?
 Because I'm right there in the car with you, right? Because I want to make sure you're understanding what I'm saying. Why that has become a fantastic force of habit for me.
 Because it gives the other person the okay, the permission to say no. Well, Chris, they're adults. They should be able to even, I mean my kid should be able to say no, I don't understand this.
 Yep, I understand what you're saying. I understand what you're thinking. But the person who was like me in my younger years, who's afraid to ask questions, I'm now letting them know it's okay.
 Why shouldn't have to do that? Great. Hold that stance. Keep that stubborn stance and realize that you're never going to have great communication in the rest of your life.
 And if you're a person, somebody who cares more about the other person than you do yourself. And if I will care more about the other person that I want to set them up for success in the communication, I want to say to them, does this tell me what doesn't make sense?
 I'll even change it up. I've discovered that I say does that make sense? And sometimes, yes, and I'll say, is there anything that's confusing? Well, yes, this part over here. Well, I just asked you does that make sense.
 And you said, yes, but if I change the verb, it's a different part of their brain. Once again, it's not about me. It's about the other person.
 So then they'll throw something out. It helps me to dig in and give better information to remove confusion. There's no point in being frustrated because it's stupid in my mind to be frustrated at this point.
 So as I start to ask these questions, as I start to adapt my communication by asking questions by digging in, by getting them to tell me what doesn't make sense, what they're struggling with, and many times I'll say, what are you receiving from me? That's also a great question for you to ask somebody. What are you receiving when I say that or even what are you hearing when I say that?
 If I will do this, then what happens is, is that person, if they're struggling with any fear or any, you know, they don't want to look stupid or anything like that, or even just their brains not processing fast enough to get to that information, then by doing this, it opens up communication.
 They feel like I care, they feel like they can trust me, they feel like they can share with me, and as long as I don't destroy that trust, then we're golden. We can keep moving on.
 So as I do that, they start to fill in information. So as I adapt the conversation by trying to get into the mind of the other person, I don't have to become their personality style. I don't have to become them. I just need to see what is lacking with my communication. What am I doing wrong? Now some of you, if you've ever watched the personality styles video, which I massively suggest,
 that you get that video. If you've never watched that, you've got to get our personality styles video. In there, I share decades ago when I had a sales team, who talked to me about not communicating really well about something.
 She's like, "Hey, this thing that's going over here, we don't know what's going on. I'm like, what are you talking about? I thought you guys knew all of that and she goes, "Crest that's your problem. You always assume that we know what's going on inside of your head."
 And so I had to stop and go, "Oh, I do that. This is 20 some years ago."
 So I actually changed the way that I communicated by bringing information to a meeting, giving all the information the way I would normally give that information.
 And then I just asked a bunch of questions. Hey guys, what makes sense? What doesn't make sense? What questions do you have? What's confusing? You know, I just asked a question after a question after a question.
 And at that time, I used to have a yellow legal pad that I carried around with me, because that had anything to do with legal.
 I wrote down so many notes, and I would just write down what they asked. So as I laid out the information the way that I normally would lay out the information, and then I just wrote down all the questions that they had about it.
 So the next time I came back, I kept that legal pad of questions.
 And so the next time I want to go do a presentation to the team, I ran through their questions.
 I wanted to know how are they thinking, because the questions that they have showed me what I was not doing in my communication style, how I was not leaning in their direction.
 So I just ran through their questions that they asked in the first presentation.
 I got all the answers I needed to be able to do. Let me refer to that. Let me refer to that. I got most of the answers that I needed.
 Then what I did is I presented that one and I did the same exact thing. What questions do you have? You know, I rented the same litany of questions to them.
 They asked, "I got information. I wrote those things down. I did this like four or five times in presentations to my team."
 And what I came back with was a lot of information that helped me to see that I could adjust my communication to my team and become much more clear.
 Now, I had been teaching personality styles at that point. Again, this is 20 some years ago, probably, I don't know, 24 years ago or so.
 And I had been teaching personality styles for probably a few years at that point.
 And I was recognizing that I was struggling even on pieces that I hadn't thought about yet.
 So as I made my shift, I made my adjustment, I started communicating considerably better. It was at that point that I realized I have got to do even further.
 I've got to do much greater deep dive into understanding my communication process and what ballistic and really started teaching and training that not just that one piece.
 But all the aspects of communication to make sure that people were getting great information and that teams were doing well and families were doing well and parents were doing well and all of that.
 So that people could adapt and communicate incredibly well.
 Okay, so hopefully this is all making a great sense in how this is adjusted my communication.
 So having been somebody who taught personality styles 24 years ago, something like that 25 years ago, whatever.
 This was a big piece for me to recognize in my own style.
 So this is what I want you to hear for the last 24 or 25 years.
 My adjustment was not just understanding personality styles, but recognizing when I don't lean in their direction.
 What is one I really want ballistic and started teaching personality styles on a much greater level. Why?
 Because it's easy to see how much folks like to understand personality styles, but rarely adjust their own.
 And again, I don't want you to become somebody different. That's always used the phrase lean in.
 Not adjust lean in the direction of somebody else by adapting their own communication.
 So that became a big part of teaching this is helping people to go, let me recognize myself and what's going on with me.
 So with all of that being said, recognizing I'm the problem.
 You know, let me start there. Yes, it is very possible that somebody else's, you know, it's their issue. I completely get that, but let's just say that that's the much smaller portion of the time, right?
 Most of the time, it's probably my fault. Let's just assume that so that we can do the best that we can to communicate and help other people to win with communication, right?
 So what do we do when it comes to kind of bridging some of those gaps and how do we do it in a graceful way? Now, I just shared with you one of the big pieces.
 Understand you, right? Understand how you act and react how you give information and how you receive information.
 If you're a high D, understand you don't want lots of information and you give sound bites of information back. You know, you wanted to sound bites, you give it in sound bites.
 If you're high eye, you want it to be very personal. You want it to be fun and energizing and and you want to be able to share lots of personal information with people.
 If you're high S, you want to make sure that it is not pointing to you. It doesn't affect people in a negative way. You don't want to make any decisions that affect people in a negative way.
 So you want to make sure that everybody is okay, everything is going fine. If you're high C, it's all about the detail detail detail detail detail detail detail detail. So if you understand these aspects of yourself.
 Then what you can do is take a look at other people's personality style. If you already know it, you know, again, if you have not run your team through personality styles and especially with the values aspect of the disc plus then.
 Boy, do you need to do that. You've got to get that done. It just changes the way your whole team communicates. Not just you, but it changes the way a team communicates with each other. So for our team.
 Everybody's got their disc profile. Now a lot of folks are remote, but in the early days we had it on their desk. So if you walk by somebody's desk or to somebody's office, you immediately got to see their profile and you knew.
 The personality style of the person you were speaking to, right? Something I do like a buddy mine has his team put their disc on their zoom handle. So normally we would say your name.
 It says their name, but it also says like they're I think they're high they're too highest personality styles so that when you're on a call with this person, you could look down at their name and see oh, I'm speaking to somebody who's a DC.
 This person doesn't want any personal time whatsoever. They want to cut to the chase, get to the details, get the information, you know, solve the task and move on.
 Or if I'm looking down at somebody who's a high I asked, well great. This is somebody who actually would enjoy a few minutes of of chit chat be personal and it's going to help us to get to the rest of the information faster by actually spending some of that time talking, right?
 So the more time I spend recognizing their personality styles, if I can see them, then great. That gives me a clue immediately. What if I don't have their personality styles? Well, then for me what I should start doing is asking questions.
 I should ask questions, especially about the topic, and that allowing that to reveal through their answers, what personality style I believe they are. You know, this is a fantastic sales technique for any of you who do sales on the phone.
 Then if you ask enough questions early on, it should help you to get to an understanding of what personality style you're talking to and then you're going to just your approach from that. Now, with that being said, what do we do about burging these these information gaps gracefully? Well, it all goes back to again, me choosing to use questions as a big piece of how I get to how the person is receiving me.
 How the person is, you know, taking the information that I'm sharing, are they getting it? Are they understanding it? And then recognizing by the personality style, how I'm going to deliver that. So what they guys say is, is that if I'm speaking to a high D, I rarely will look at a high D and go, you know, does that make sense?
 Because a high D is going to respond, oh, yeah, of course, of course, of course. And then three seconds, I'd like to go, now tell me about this thing over here. Well, how many of this? You know, a high D's response is going to be, yeah, I get that that totally makes sense, but fill in the gaps because I don't understand it.
 Well, why are you saying that it makes sense? You know, it's like if you ask a, if you ask a high D, what are you afraid of their responses, I'm not afraid of anything.
 Well, what do you concern with? Well, I'm concerned about this, this and this, okay. So it's just a different way of looking at it, right? So in all my high D's out there going, yeah, that's me.
 If I speak to the high D in a way that they feel like is making them sound stupid, I'm going to have a really difficult time with this conversation.
 Instead of saying something like, does that make sense? I might change it up and go, you get that right? And that puts it on them to go, yeah, oh, yeah, of course.
 But do you have any questions about it? I'll adjust the way that I communicate with them. That makes sense, right? Yeah, that totally makes sense. Okay, is there, do you have any questions on it though? Yeah, this, this and this.
 It changes the way that they receive the information that I'm sharing. So as I look to each personality style, if I'm talking to a high I, I'm going to be very personable about it. I'm going to talk about it in a way that, you know, speaking to,
 are they not only are they getting the information, but I'm not going to be super task, you know, driven in how I deliver it. I'm going to try and deliver it in a way that has a different tone, you know, making it nice and fun.
 And if I can, but here's the thing I need to know about the high I, the high I does not pay attention to details. So if I'm delivering yes, high I, as you all know that.
 So if I'm delivering it to a high I, then I need to make sure that they are actually paying attention to the details and what I might do is, you know, if I ask, do you understand that again, like the D, they're going to say yes, but here's what I will ask them after that.
 Can you just repeat back to me what it is that I'm saying. Can you tell me what you're hearing me say that, which is a, that's actually a better way of saying it. I, I love to use up tell me what you hear me saying, because then they need to repeat back the thing that I'm saying and that's where I find the gaps, right, if I've not done a good job communicating to them, if I am creating information gaps, I will see it.
 If I've communicated really well and they're not really picking up on the details, then I'm going to see it there as well. So the highest, what I want to do to bridge those gaps, I want to start listening to their responses. I want to see, you know, and in every one of these situations, by the way, you need to be listening to their response.
 Don't be listening so that you can have a response. It is not about listening so you can respond. It's about listening to what they're getting or how they're receiving the information.
 So the highest, what I'm going to do is I'm going to listen to see if there's any problems that there's any conflict in this.
 If the highest feels conflict immediately, they are going to struggle with this information. They're going to say things like, I'm not sure that we should do this. I don't think that's going to work out. I don't know why we would even go this direction.
 There's a lot of stuff that they will do that will show you that they're having a problem struggling with their personality stop.
 That's where you start asking more questions. Where do you see this being a problem? How do you see this affecting people negatively?
 Tell me what you think is wrong with this whole project, or whatever.
 Get in and get them to expose the thing that they're experiencing. Now, if they have a legitimate reason, yes, I think this is going to be a problem because it's going to fail over here.
 If it's a very fantastic, maybe you've got new information. If the information is this is conflict and I don't want to deal with it, then that's going to show it pretty rapidly as well.
 That's when you're going to lead the conversation in a different direction.
 Let me say that again, help them to overcome the conflict that they're experiencing with the communication, with the information. Help them to see and understand why this information is necessary.
 Help them to overcome the conflict aspect of it. Whatever is necessary, this will help you lean in their direction and bridge that gap of confusion that is created or frustration on your part.
 That's created because of the conflict issue.
 Again, make sure that you're listening to what they're experiencing, make sure that you're listening to what they're saying. Don't just listen to respond, listen to how they're responding. What they're saying? What they're experiencing.
 If you're looking at a high sea, understand lack of details is going to be your biggest issue. The high sea is going to need to know the 30,000 foot view to understand the five foot view.
 Period. It's the way that they're brain processes. They don't understand the big picture.
 The thing that you're asking them to do is to be incredibly difficult for them to accomplish. If you're trying to teach your child about math and telling them you just do this and this and they don't understand why you're doing it that way. Why would you calculate this and this, the specific way that you said, then it's going to be very difficult for them to think through that process and put that process in their brain for the future.
 But if you can help them to understand how you got to that process, then they can lock it in and go, that makes sense. I can do a B and C going forward.
 So big big key is adapting your communication style to help them receive the information you're communicating.
 So one of my favorite things is after teaching this for so long is watching clients, people in the moment recognize that they can make some adjustments.
 In the moment lean in somebody's direction. That for me is just super powerful because one, it's one thing to understand personality styles.
 That's anybody can do that, but it really takes somebody to recognize that maybe they're the problem in the moment that maybe they need to adjust them in the moment.
 And so it has been fantastic to watch person at the client, at the client business, business owners, team members that will stop and lean in somebody else's direction.
 I like to share just helping high C to see a big picture. If I'm giving direction on something and going stop, they're definitely not getting this go big picture.
 Share the whole information and then see if they get the smaller piece of information. That is such a powerful thing. When I get to see clients do it, it's just it's crazy fun.
 It means they've gone past the just learning aspect and they're now moving in the direction of I want this person to get this I want this person to be successful.
 Now it takes a while again you need to go through the whole process. You need to make sure everybody's gone through their discs. You need to make sure people have watched the video. You need to make sure that it's coming up in meetings and discussions and one on one and all that kind of on stuff.
 It's one thing to be able to understand and help people understand personality styles. It's a completely different thing to help them to win to stop being selfish self centered focused on you and say I want this person or these people to really get this.
 With all of that being said, it is vitally important that you understand this can be done. Not only can it be done, it's happening all the time.
 We have lots of clients with their teams that operate this way. It is a great thing to recognize somebody's team during a strap play. There's quite often there's times that folks that have been through all of this sitting at a table somebody is struggling with something and somebody on the other side of the table will say stop hold on.
 You need to lean in their direction. Remember, she's a high-seer, she's a high-eye or whatever. It is great to see team members doing it literally on the spot.
 It works. People are doing it. You've got to make the decision that this is something that you want to do that you want to understand. You want to experience and you want your team or your family.
 It's to make sure that your family is communicating incredibly well and getting past all of these gaps. So here is my desire for you that no matter what your personality style is, it does not matter what your personality style is.
 You want to be a player that you choose to become adaptable, that you choose to become flexible with your communication, that you recognize that you may be the issue.
 You find that you're not great, fantastic, that's wonderful. But always assume that you are so that you can make sure that you're giving the best information you possibly can.
 Now if you want to get moving on what I'm talking about today, check out our collection of disc products. They are designed to enhance communication, teamwork and definitely understanding within families.
 So visit Chrissacrilo.com/store for more details. That's Chrissacrilo.com/store. Well, there you have it folks. We've never get into the intricate terrain of information gaps and personality styles.
 Now remember, understanding these dynamics can transform your relationships. That's how I want you to view this. If you want better relationships at home, if you want better relationships in the workplace, doing what we've talked about today can absolutely transform that now. We would love to hear your stories.
 We would love to hear your insights. So do me a favor, feel free to share those with us at podcast@christlacrilo.com. That's podcast@christlacrilo.com.
 Well hopefully this is helped you today. As always, we hope you take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]