 On today's episode, we're diving into building healthy, happy hybrid teams.
 Join us as we uncover the secrets to creating a harmonious and productive blend of remote
 and in-person teamwork.
 That is coming up next.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal of Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business
 is what you do, not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today we're talking about something and I will be honest in my earlier years, gosh,
 I shouldn't just say my earlier years.
 Up until about the time of COVID, I have never been a leader who loves having remote workers.
 I'm just going to tell you that right upfront.
 That is something in my 30 plus years of leading people that I just, it's never been exciting.
 I've always preferred to have people in the same spot to be able to work with people face to face.
 If I needed something, I could go to them.
 If they needed to get with a team and solve something that could solve it.
 So the remote piece for me has just never been a great thing in my mind.
 Until I was forced into it until we didn't have an option.
 Until it became something that was a must because of COVID, the way the things there.
 I just like a lot of you out there who are listening to this, it actually changed the way that we did our team.
 It changed a lot of things actually.
 And for me, it became something that was a must.
 We had to do it.
 And so for me, it's figured out.
 Let's do it.
 Let's get in.
 Let's make it happen in Paris.
 God, we had phenomenal relationships, friends like Magnus Emanerson who runs Good Night.
 I don't know 60 summer, people are more, actually, probably more than that now at this point.
 God, I think it's over 100 people that we could turn to and say, hey, before we did heavy into this,
 give us the ins and outs.
 And very quickly, it became something that we were very glad to have.
 It was something that we could see was a benefit to us.
 And I'm going to walk through some of those benefits.
 And some of the difficulties and some of the great aspects and bad aspects.
 I'm going to hit a bunch of those.
 Oh, this isn't going to be colossal deep dive, but it's going to be the things that you need to be hearing right now.
 Because it's something that everybody, I shouldn't say everybody.
 It's something that a lot of people should consider.
 So again, what was my hesitancy?
 Well, one of the things that I've always struggled with is, if I can't see you get to you
 talk with you, how do I know that you're busting it?
 How do I know that you're making it happen?
 How do I know that you're not just slacking?
 I've never been one to hire slackers.
 But it's something that I have come to discover with certain people that when you give them the opportunity to not have the accountability,
 then they're a little bit more difficult or considerably more difficult to lead.
 Accountability is the number two biggest issue we see in every business.
 We see it everywhere.
 There's not a company who comes into what we do and into how we lead leaders or lead businesses or
 do strap plans or any of that.
 That communication isn't the number one issue and accountability or lack of high quality accountability,
 isn't the number two issue.
 And right behind that, culture almost always tends to be number three, you know issues with culture.
 So the accountability piece for me is big.
 I mean, it's something I've taught for decades.
 You have to have accountability and because of great communication and great accountability,
 our team is probably half the size of what most people would use would hire to do the amount of stuff that we do.
 Yes, half the size because we have an incredible team who buss it who gets things done.
 They're highly effective.
 They're highly efficient.
 They have great accountability.
 They have great communication.
 Do we make mistakes?
 Of course we make mistakes.
 Rescript things all the time.
 But our processes and our accountability covers that.
 It helps us to get things done and move on.
 So one of my biggest hesitancies before I got into a wide scale remote workers I've always had
 somebody, you know, Brian in Sicily as a remote worker.
 There's people that I've had one off here and there.
 But for the most part, almost all of our team is remote right now.
 Now in probably a couple of months, there will be a handful of us that will be back together on a daily basis.
 Or at least a few days a week.
 But for the most part, we're remote.
 Now we do all of our events together.
 Obviously we all of our next level of life, strap plans, cordially retreats, all that stuff is still happening
 in our offices.
 But we have discovered that we can be more efficient in getting things done by having a remote team.
 And another thing, you know, a hesitancy of not being face to face was, I really have never loved
 the concept of hiring somebody who's not even in the same town.
 Right?
 So that because then what do you do?
 How do you make sure that you control the culture?
 You know, I've always believed the culture must get rubbed on somebody, right?
 They have to be in the building, experiencing the culture, experiencing the communication,
 experiencing, you know, the core values, all of these aspects, how we treat people, how we treat
 clients when they come in.
 And so that's always been one of those things where it's like,
 "Ah, I just, I don't want to spend the time trying to get somebody who's not here in town to get all the
 culture all of them."
 So these were the hesitancies that I went into it with.
 I'm sure you guys probably have other ones.
 There's other things that, you know, communication for us is not that big of a deal.
 So we're going to make communication happen.
 But it's also the other pieces that I wanted to make sure.
 How do I know that they are living out our core values, at least, during their workday?
 Right? So these are things that were concerns of mine.
 And I am glad to say that over the years our team was just killed.
 It's just nailed it and has done it for now on a job.
 So we're going to kind of talk about that today.
 So in the first aspect of this or first segment of this,
 I want to talk about kind of navigating the hybrid landscape, if you will.
 So the things that I just laid out, the biggest things,
 leaders should be worried about.
 Let me say, if you're not concerned about this, that should be, that should be a concerted itself.
 That should be a problem right there.
 If you're not concerned about communication issues,
 understand that remote work is not going to be good for you.
 And I don't mean that in a way of you're not concerned because you do the things that we teach
 and you kill it and you follow this stuff.
 That's not what I mean. I'm talking about just the average person.
 It's like, I'm not worried about communication.
 I'm sure it's going to work out just fine.
 If that is the mindset that you have, I can promise you remote, it's going to suck.
 It is not going to work well.
 All right. So this needs to be said, even me, the guy who teaches this on a continuous basis,
 the company that teaches this on a continuous basis, I can tell you that that was a concern.
 We had multiple meetings of how are we going to make sure that we're communicating really well.
 What are we going to do to survey our team to find out where the communication failures are happening?
 What are we going to do when we find out that a team member is not doing a good job communicating?
 So first thing is, is I want you to be concerned that communication is going to drop
 if not tank. Let me say the quality of communication.
 So that needs to be the first thing that you're focused on.
 Second thing is, and man, listen, just trust me on this. This is a gap punch and I know it.
 But you need to hear this. Most likely you have accountability issues with your team members.
 Now, if you've been through a strap plan, if you've been through a lot of the leaders,
 if you're in the next level mastermind group, if you've been through the leadership stuff that
 we teach, then maybe it's not that bad. But I will tell you,
 really, I want you to think about what are your processes for accountability in your team?
 Now, if you do not have phenomenal accountability, great accountability,
 then I can promise you you're going to be battling this on a continuous basis. Now, but without even
 going remote, you're probably battling this and you may not even recognize it. There's a lot of companies
 that have these issues that just keep coming up over and over again. And then when I sit down with
 them, our team sits down with them and they go, hey, well, where's the accountability for this?
 You know, where's your care? Where's your care? Where's your KPIs? Where's your processes?
 How do they understand your core values? What's the mission and the vision that you've got?
 As we go through fundamental things, what we discover is people just don't have them.
 It's not there. It's a struggle. Or if they do have it, they're not done well.
 And I will be the first to admit, care is are very difficult to do well. I will never sugarcoat
 care aids. There's a lot of stuff you can do well. It isn't that difficult, but care aids are tough
 to get done well. That's just the way that it is. That's why we have an incredibly long couple of lessons
 on how to make that stuff happen. There's a reason for it because people tend to not understand
 what it means to create a phenomenal expectation, not a task. We're not looking, how do you describe
 a task? How do you do a job description? Those aren't the things that we're focused on. What is the
 expected result that we're looking for? I know I'm simplifying the day. I think you get the point.
 If you don't have all of these accountability processes in place, you should be concerned.
 Remote is not going to work if you suck at accountability. It's just not.
 Well, Chris, surely we can make anything happen. You can make anything happen. But over time,
 lack of quality accountability is actually going to create way more issues. Where you might find yourself
 doing really well early on with a hybrid team, only to discover later on, that the lack of accountability
 reveals 20 issues that you've now got to go on solve. You don't have time to do it.
 So the second thing I want you to really think about is what does it look like to put quality
 accountability in place? What does it look like to make sure that people know what one
 looks like? To know what's expected of them, to know the results that you expected them,
 to know what it looks like to do their jobs successfully when they're not in the office,
 and somebody's not side by side. What does it look like to make sure that they're still living
 out, your company's core values, your mission? What is the purpose for them to show up every day at work?
 Even if it's at home behind their computer and their PJs? What is the purpose for that today?
 Why are they there? How do they treat team members? How do they treat leaders? How do they treat
 vendors and how do they treat the client? How do you make sure that they're doing a great job?
 That's one of the things that I learned early on is that sometimes you can have team members who aren't
 treating your clients very well because it's just them. It's them sitting in their home doing their thing
 and they don't feel that pressure of leadership being right around the corner that they can't
 treat a client badly. They get off a call with a client and they're staring at their computer,
 pet and their cat, but they don't have the immediate response of somebody who's sitting next to them
 listening to the way that they treat a client. You will find that if you don't have things in place
 for all of these aspects and there's so much more accountability, if you don't have those in place,
 it's going to be an issue. The culture piece that I talked about, what does it look like to make sure
 your team members are actually living out your culture, your core values at the bare minimum during the
 hours that they work? What are the things that are the most important things to you and your business
 or your team and are do you have things in place that cover that to make sure people are responding
 that way? If it's vitally important to you that people respond to emails in a certain amount of time, phone calls,
 on a certain amount of time, what does that look like? How do you make sure that it's being done?
 How do you make sure that they are caring for people the way that you expect them to care for?
 How do you make sure that they're starting on time? How do you know that if you have a set number of
 hours, you know, for a lot of folks, you still need somebody eight to five, because you have clients that are
 probably calling you in a contact or right? How do you know if they're actually doing that? How do you know
 if they're not taking advantage of the time and falling behind on client details? Whatever it is,
 that is important to you in your culture. For us, God and grace, those are one and two.
 How do I make sure that people are treating people the way that we think that they should? How do I make sure
 that we're being graceful to each other? Graceful to vendors that we would ever
 is, how do I make sure that we're being excellent? Excellent is a core value of ours. What does that look like?
 So these challenges are things that you as a leader need to be thinking through and the funny thing is
 this is, if you're a parent, if you have a child that's going off to college or something, if you have a child
 that's going off to an internship somewhere, if you have a child that's starting a new job somewhere,
 what does it look like for them to follow your home core value? So things to be thinking about as you
 send people off or allow people to go off on their own and do things on their own in this hybrid
 type. So next aspect of this is something that I have loved discovering. And I've always known this and
 it's just one of those things you think about, but again, the issues, the concerns I had,
 kind of overwrote this, a great aspect of the hybrid team is finding people with great skill sets,
 finding great talent, great gifts. It is amazing to me. The team that we have that is the most remote,
 the furthest away, they are quality, they have better skills. So it's interesting. I got really
 frustrated. I'm not going to share the aspects of it, the details of it. But there are certain roles
 that it just drives me nuts to try and hire locally. And you know, it is something I'm trying not to
 give too much information about this. You could probably figure out if you listen long enough.
 But it drives me nuts to go out and hire these roles that I need, the specific jobs and pay an incredible
 amount of money for people who don't get things done. And the pool you have is the pool that's around you.
 Now a lot of you get that. A lot of you understand that. That when you look around you that sometimes
 the pool around you just isn't that great. And if you could just reach outside of that. Now again,
 if they don't have to be physically there, then I really want you to consider remote.
 I want to, I want us to be something that you walk through all of these process and ask yourself the
 question, can I find better talent outside of my pool, outside of my local area? And I'm worn on the
 small area. I mean, the national area has been exploding. But it's interesting that there are certain
 roles that there's always this mentality that you need to pay me. And I can't prove what I'm going
 to accomplish for you. And it's just it's ridiculous. So after being really frustrated about it and
 COVID hitting, you know, I gave Joel our president a, hey, go get me people outside of here.
 Go find, go build a team outside of here and praise God he did. And with the again, with the help of
 somebody like a Magnus Seminarson, we put together a guy say, we, I, I just approved it.
 Joel put together a great team who is absolutely killing it. They're doing a great job. They are happy.
 They function well. They approach each day with excitement about what they're going to tackle.
 I mean, it's just been incredible. So a great aspect for you to be thinking about is, what does it look
 like to hire talent because they can be remote somewhere that is not local? Can you get into a different
 market? Can you get into a different area and find people with skill sets? And they can actually
 knock things out instead of keep showing up and, you know, drinking your coffee and eating your snacks,
 but not producing anything. So that for me has been fantastic. It is great to be able to
 provide my team with another team to back them up and accomplish things. And we don't,
 we don't just all sit around going, I wonder if this person's going to do something in the next three
 months. I wonder if they're going to actually, you know, show us some money in the next six months, right?
 So that for me, as you could see, that's that has been in its only one area of business. It's only one
 area that drives me nuts. The other area is I'm great with. You can be local, you can be remote,
 but this is something that I found that is better for me to get remote. Now, with that also being said,
 there's also the options or the possibilities in this is again, this took me a little while
 to be okay with this because I've always liked people being available while the team is available. You know,
 if the customer believes that we're available eight to five, then we all should be available eight to five. What
 gets what? You don't always need everybody available eight to five. And when Brian went on to
 successfully and started working part-time for us, doing his missions work over there and working part-time
 for us here, that became very evident. You know, he did not need to be working the same exact hours.
 He just needed to be available in specific hours when we did team meetings and stuff. And that wasn't
 difficult to make that happen. He got his stuff done. He got his job done. He did a great job. He killed it.
 We loved. That's great. Well, that allowed us to open that up to other folks as well. We now have a
 team member who has literally just moved to Spain. I don't know if it's a for everything or a part-time
 thing or what that's going to look like. But she's over there and she's lovin it and join it. She's got there.
 But this gives another opportunity. Her role is one that doesn't need to be available during the
 eight to five, you know, time slot that we are. She's available for team meetings and fact. I mean,
 when we're starting the day, it's in the middle of her afternoon. So it allows us to really meet with her
 get things done and then she can go on and do your own things. So that's another great aspect of having
 a hybrid team is if it works out for them to be more flexible with their time and you're okay with it.
 And it doesn't affect you in a negative way, then that gives you another ability to change your
 pool of people you're drawing from. So with all of this being said, there's also something that is
 incredibly important and that is strong leaders. So yes, you've got to develop the culture you need.
 You need to have high levels of quality communication or it's just not going to work out. You have
 got to have quality accountability or it's just going to become, you're going to be fighting fires
 the whole time. But if you do not have strong leaders or a strong leader, depending upon how many people you
 have remote, if you don't have strong leadership, then your biggest failure here is going to be a
 massive lack of productivity. You're going to spend an incredible amount of money paying people who don't
 know what the heck they're supposed to accomplish today. Who are trying to get questions answered, but
 nobody's there to answer them. Who are frustrated because they don't feel like they're winning and they're
 taking money from you and good quality people are going to hate taking money from you and feeling
 like they're not doing something while themselves or you may have people who are very glad that there's
 no leadership and there's no accountability and they get to do whatever they want, nor two or three
 hours a day because nobody's checking out. Nobody's making sure. So it's vitally important that you have
 strong leadership. Now I always say do not hire anybody without a leader to leave them. Now you would say,
 well no duck, that's obvious. No, that's not obvious. There are a lot of times people will hire somebody
 for a role and then there isn't an available leader to lead them. They may have somebody they report to,
 but that person's not available. That person's not leading them. It's this kind of island that that you
 create because you convince yourself that the roles of good role and we need to put somebody in the role.
 Do not hire people without quality leaders to lead them. Do not do a hybrid team. Do not go remote
 without making sure that you have a leader or leaders to lead your people that are remote. Don't waste your
 money on folks who are sitting there, twiddling their thumbs because they have no clear direction,
 they have no clear vision. They think they're doing the things they're supposed to do, but they're not
 absolutely sure. Don't waste your time. So if you're going to make this happen, make it a must.
 If we don't have a strong leader in place or if you're doing multiple teams, strong leaders,
 if we don't have those folks in place, then we cannot move out on remote yet. We have to make sure
 we're setting people up for success. We have to make sure that we are allowing people to understand
 what direction we're moving in. You hire a role and they don't know what the role purpose is and
 what direction they're heading in, then guess what? You're doing the shot, got a approach. You have
 people going in multiple directions because they just don't know. Nobody gets hired without strong
 leadership. Section 2, segment 2, process 2, however you want to look at this, to fostering healthy
 team dynamics so that you can create happy and engaged team members. Relationship is a must.
 Let me say it this way and I think everybody is going to get this because it's how you would feel.
 So check me on this. Do you want to feel cared for as a team member? Now if you're an entrepreneur
 business owner, that may not be a place that you are anymore. But there was a time there was. I can tell
 you as I stepped up into leadership throughout time. I wasn't focused on being cared for. I was focused
 on creating things. I was focused on moving things. I didn't sit there and think, man, I don't know if
 my leader cares for me. But as a team member, absolutely I did. So did you?
 Probably every single role you've had at some point somewhere another. Think about just a role as a
 family member. How much do you want to be cared for? How much do you want to feel valued? Come on,
 think about this for a second. How much do you want to feel valued? Some of you young folks
 listen to this. You might be sitting at thinking, I don't feel cared for. I'm going to go
 quite much out. Don't do that yet. Don't catch it. I was off the spot your face. There's options here.
 There's things you could do. But it's a true valid thought. What if you don't feel valued and
 cared for where you are? Well, then you're probably not something that's super important. But in
 you're probably not bought into the team. You're probably not bought into the role. You're probably not
 bought into the business. Why? Because there's no value to it. At least you feel like what you're
 experiencing is. You just don't feel valued. So leaders, guess what? You have to make sure
 that you're remote people listen. If you're not doing at home right now, if you're not doing it in
 the brick and mortar that you're in right now, if you're not doing it in the place that everybody shows up to
 day after day, you're definitely not going to be able to do it in a remote setting. So start there.
 Right? Make sure you're creating phenomenal relationships with your team members in your brick and
 mortar now to make sure that they feel cared for, that they feel valued, that they have ownership,
 that they feel bought into what you're doing. Then, as you look at this hybrid role, that has to be a full
 court press. That's got to be something that you let them, and I'm not saying, you got to go spend
 30 minutes a day just having silly conversations about stuff that doesn't really matter. That's not what I'm
 talking about. Make sure that you're communicating, that your team members are cared for and valued,
 make sure that you're putting things in place to ensure that the team members are about it.
 So don't do it fake. I used to have a leader in my early days that he'd walked down the hall,
 and it was like a check box went right above his head. He saw me and you could see as eyes go,
 I got to say something positive to Chris, and then he would say, "Hey, great job on this
 thing over here." I could tell it wasn't sincere. It was done from a task instead of a place of heart.
 Finally, what day I just said, "Dude, listen, you don't have to say that to me. It's okay."
 And he goes, "Oh, I don't. I want no. It's okay. Never got another compliment from that guy."
 He cracked me up. I was like, "Well, the check box didn't pop above his head anymore,
 I guess. Listen, a campy at check box. Your team members need to feel bought in. Your team members need to be valued.
 If you're going to have bought in team members, they need to feel valued. They need to feel like you actually
 care about them. And being remote, I can tell you this. It's tough. Sometimes it's tough for people to
 feel cared for. It can be difficult. That was one of the things that we ran into with some of our
 team members is feeling alone. Feeling out there, feeling like they aren't around people and they wanted to
 be around people. And so we put things in place. There are certain meetings that happen. There are certain
 lunch meetings there and West does a specific lunch meeting with his team just to make sure that they all
 are coming together as community and spending time together. Because it can be tough being out there
 by yourself. So that's something that you have to make sure you are doing. Also, one of the things that we do
 and it's yes, it's very expensive. But we have a tendency to fly people here. So when we do events,
 when we do retreats, when we do our next level leadership live event, we have an incredible line item,
 travel amount for people who are coming during that time frame. Because we want people to feel a sense of
 belonging. We want them to experience each other. We don't want them to feel isolated.
 We don't want them to feel like they are alone. And I'll talk about this too. You have to watch your
 personality styles. 99 eyes. This is very difficult for it's very difficult for a 99. I'm not saying that
 they can't do it. That's not what I'm saying at all. I'm just saying that if you have a 99
 eye who is not spending time with people all day long, you know, at least on the phone, talking to people,
 experiencing others, then you're probably going to find that person leaving and going to a brick
 and mortar, folks, I have seen it a ton of times. I've seen a lot of folks that don't even have to be
 in 99 eye. That could be a 67 eye. I've seen folks that will leave their role some for less money
 to go be around people because people matter so much. Now you deez and seize, you're like,
 I don't get it. Great. You don't have to get it. You just got to get it. Right?
 You have to understand that if you have a personality style that is feeling super isolated and not feeling
 apart like they belong to something, apart of a team, then there's a really good chance that
 over time, even no matter how much you pay them, that they will be leaving and going to something
 else. I've seen it a lot lately. I shouldn't say I've seen it a lot. I've seen it a probably half
 dozen times where people are choosing to get out of their role and even gosh, I don't know, the percent
 at least 50% of those probably would be leaving more money for less money because they needed to
 be around people. So things to think about how do you make sure that they are feeling like they are
 apart that they belong, right? Do not let them feel isolated. And I'm not saying you got to fly your
 people, you know, all to your brick and mortar. I'm just saying think of ways, what does it look like?
 What you know, even just as airing us, putting in a lunch from time to time, I think it does it once a week.
 Spending that time with the teams, they all eat lunch together. I don't want to see people
 see me eat and food on the camera. Trust me, you will get over it quickly. The key is not
 judgment on how you eat your food. The key is just spending time together. So third aspect of this,
 as we talk through hybrid teams, third segment, I guess I could say, is balancing the flexibility
 and structure. So what are the remote work best practices? So I can't get to all of this.
 So I'm just going to have to really pound at home. Processes and tools are huge if you're going to be
 successful. So what am I talking about here? Guys, you have got to have great processes in place.
 This is how we do stuff. This is how we do this role. This is how we do this communication piece.
 This is how we do this with clients. This is how we do whatever it is. This is how we build
 this aspect of a website. If you're working on, I don't know what it is, right? Whatever you're doing,
 the process has to be in place. Now I will say this is something that comes out of every
 strap plan. Every strap plan we find that processes are behind. Haven't been updated,
 aren't written down, aren't documented, are just crazy outdated because they've changed so many things
 or we're not even doing those things anymore. We have some stuff that's documented, but nobody does
 that anymore. People can't find the processes. They don't know where to find a process. So let me just say,
 that is a huge part. You've got to make sure that you are going to give you the quick run down. We go through
 this so much more detail as we walk through something like strap plan, but I'm going to just give you
 the quick run down. You've got to make sure that the processes are defined. You've got to make sure
 that they are optimized. You've got to make sure that they are written down. They are documented somewhere.
 You've got to make sure that people have access to it and you've got to make sure that they're trained.
 They have to be trained on the processes and you need to put something in place to optimize them as you go.
 If you don't have quality processes in place, then you're literally giving people the opportunity to
 do this role and figure it out on their own. Now some people may do a great job doing that,
 but I'm going to bet a lot of people are going to short cut things. I'm going to bet that there's
 going to be a lot of things that get done that aren't to the standard that you would have, that the excellence
 that you would have in your team. But can you blame them if they don't have quality processes?
 What do they do? Good team member will figure it out even if it's not a great process. They'll
 figure something out. What about tools? Do you have the tools in place that they need to create
 quality communication? Do you have the tools that they need in place to do their job? Do you have
 the tools in place for them to have accountability for themselves? A lot of people want accountability.
 They want to know what it looks like to be successful. They want to know what it's like. They want
 you to see that they're doing a great job. So are the tools in place for them to do the best job that
 they possibly can? Do they have quality computers? This is something that as the world,
 seems like every time the world revolves once computers are just outdated and old and slow.
 Do they have the quality computers to do what they need? Do they have the software programs?
 Do they understand the structure of how things are supposed to work? Do they understand
 who they're reporting to? Do they understand who they work with? If you have teams working on the
 same projects, is there a hierarchy? So they know who do I listen to? Who do I report to? Who has
 ultimate responsibility of this thing? Whatever it is, are those things in place? Is there solid communication
 and solid visibility on the tasks on the projects? Can you now one of the things we use?
 Just amazingly is a sauna. We use a sauna all the time. That is big for us. It's not only task.
 It's project. It's everything. We use it like crazy. And that helps us to have a lot of
 visibility. So it helps the team members to have visibility on what they're supposed to be doing.
 What tasks are supposed to be focused on? It helps the leader to be able to assign stuff out left
 and right very easily. I don't live on the only one in the company who doesn't live in a sauna
 because I don't have a job that does daily tasks like everybody else does. I'm doing things like this.
 I'm doing the show. I'm doing coaching. I'm doing next-level life. I'm doing
 strap plans and retreats and all that stuff. So I don't live in tasks, right? And yet I still have
 a decent amount of stuff that comes out of a sauna. It's just people aren't assigning me a bunch of tasks in
 there. But I can the other direction. All of my leaders can assign tasks. Team members can assign
 tasks to people. All kinds of great visibility helping out with projects. Being able to look at a
 project and see where is it? Is it advancing? Well, are the right things getting done? There's a
 program out there that we help a lot of folks with. I'm not going to mention the name. But there's a
 program out there that's a great linear program that a lot of folks follow and then they get into this
 thing and there's this process of where are you on this project and people are always with everything
 is great. No problem. And then three months later, they're finding out things are following a part. We help
 a lot of clients to navigate that program a heck of a better. Some of you may be able to figure out what I'm
 talking about by putting in all the stuff that we teach. The accountability pieces, the communication
 pieces, the how to run a project really well, all that kind of fun stuff. If you don't have a solid
 program and maybe that's something you should really take a look at. Maybe you're in this program that
 is super linear and it doesn't have good accountability and it doesn't give great visibility to folks,
 then you need something and your team needs something. To help them to be really cohesive on
 how project is going. Basing for us, one of the things that we will do is we'll base things on
 this aspect of this project, it begins as soon as this person finishes this aspect of the project. So this
 is contingent on what this person does over here. And I great later, it kind of watched that and see
 how are things going or people doing what they need to do or they getting things done in a timely
 manner. Are they focusing on the right stuff? They have the right priorities in place and that's a big
 piece. That's a big piece is making sure that they have right priorities. Don't let them go after all the
 easy stuff because the thing you need them to focus on is kind of like we'll say we are all all of us.
 100% of us are guilty of that, right? Let me go work on the easy thing because that conflict piece
 I don't really want to hit right now. So all of these things need to be in place so that you don't have
 scattered, distracted people. You don't have folks that are working on things that aren't a priority to.
 You don't have folks that are working on the easiest aspects and you're the complicated things or
 the most important things aren't getting done. So what are some great examples? We use like I say
 a sauna, we use dash lane is phenomenal. We love dash lane and maybe there's a better something out
 there but we are big fans of dash lane and dash lane is the password keeper. I only have to remember a
 couple of passwords nowadays. Praise God, Halle. If you've not moved in this direction, why not?
 The great thing is we can assign them to team members. All of our team members have a crystal curto
 email. So when we do all of these apps, your email is what gives you access to the app. So if somebody
 quits or somebody gets let go or something like that, then we kill the email. It kills all of the
 access. It's everything that we've given them. But that also allows you to give them access to a password
 without ever knowing what the password is. So if you give them limited access, then they can use that
 password. They never know the password is. They can't change it. They can't give it out. But they can log into
 the apps that you want them to. If you want them to have greater access and be able to change stuff,
 you can do that as well. But dash lanes big for us, drop boxes big for us because that's our our cloud
 version of everything that we use ever note. We only have few of us use ever note. But just think through,
 those are just some examples. But make sure that everybody has access to the tools and the software
 that you need. Now with that being said, I will say this. You're going to have a lot of folks
 that believe that the software program that they use is the one that they need to use and that
 everybody in the business should be using. Oh, that's one of the tough ones. We have, I don't know how many
 subscriptions to software programs that we have that the team uses. And we go through them once or twice a
 year to make sure are we still using this? If we're not, we're not going to want to keep paying for it.
 So make sure the people are using the same stuff, get them on the same page. And if you are not the
 person to be leading that up, I am not that person. People have come to me in the past and like, hey,
 we need to be using this app over here. And then I'm like, okay, let's try it and then come to find out,
 we were paying for that thing over in this app over here and nobody wants to use that. It just creates
 this muddy water. But as our company grew and more tech became more sophisticated, I wasn't the guy.
 I will be honest. I'm not a big Google Doc fan. I'm not. Why? Because I came up with Lotus.
 I came up in the early days. So for me, I'm still, when it comes to things like Excel and Ord,
 and I don't barely use word anymore, but Excel's a big thing for me. I know what in
 sign-out I can understand formulas. I can understand all that kind of stuff. But my team
 convinced me that there was a time we needed to really shift into Google Docs because it had
 better opportunities where I'm paying for aspects of this stuff. And it made sense.
 So make sure that you're not going out and doing 400 different subscriptions because every week,
 somebody tells you you need a new subscription. You got to vet the data outside of that. But at the
 same time, don't hold the team up. If there is a better program that your team needs to be using and
 it's going to make things easier, more cohesive, great. Get the stuff available for them.
 Make it available and that will make the remote the hybrid aspect so much better. So
 with all of that being said, I didn't go into heavy details on the importance of personality styles.
 You have got to make sure if you're going to do hybrid teams and listen, I don't care if a
 hybrid team or a local team, whatever, you've got to be working through personality styles. You've
 got to make sure that you're utilizing the disc products that you're communicating with your team
 members this way that you're teaching people to lean in each other's directions. This will definitely
 enhance your communication for so long people have told us we thought our communication was great
 until we went through your video as a team and then we discovered that our communication was actually
 chaos. We started putting all the stuff in place and man, now we really communicate well. So
 make it happen. I'm always going to tell you you should do disc and values because that also helps
 you to see what motivates people and I think that's super important for you to understand. But at the
 bare minimum, you've got to be doing the disc stuff. So to get to the disc products to make sure your
 communication is working, to make sure you have better team work, to make sure you have greater
 understanding with your teams, go to crsacrittle.com/door for more details. Get the information
 trust me on this. It's going to change in revolutionize the way that you communicate with your team.
 Chrisacrittle.com/store. There you have it folks. We've unraveled the mysteries of building healthy,
 happy hybrid teams. We're going to continue on this type of stuff. So I want you to stay tuned for our
 next episode. Now remember, it's about embracing the best of both worlds. Yes, it is if you've got
 a brick and mortar and you have to have people local great that's fantastic. Make it happen.
 I'm still always going to prefer that. I love, as we're building our new office spaces and we're
 going to be having the local folks coming to the office space, the new office space. I look forward to
 what I can't wait. I'm excited about it. It's a great thing for me. But it is so much better
 having both aspects, having both worlds. Because the talent that we have on the team that's out there,
 we got them all over. We have them all over the US. We have them all over the world. So it's great. I love
 it. It's fantastic. So we'd love to hear your stories and insights. We really do. I'm telling you,
 we would love to hear from you. So feel free to share them at podcast@christacrittle.com.
 Once again, that's podcast@christacrittle.com. Well that's all the time we have for today.
 I hope this information has helped you to make quality decisions on moving forward on remote teams,
 our teams. I hope that is really helped you out. As always, take this information, change your
 leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 (upbeat music)
 [BLANK_AUDIO]