 On today's episode, your new job, chief, but hey, your officer.
 Hope please don't click off too slow so we just follow the show.
 That is coming up next.
 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life.
 And discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having an exciting day, a fantastic day and amazing day, wherever you are.
 Today we're talking about South Carolina.
 I hope I didn't lose most of you with that front bumper.
 But we're talking about a new career path for you, which is called chief,
 behavior officer and what it means to you as a leader or an owner to actually have that role.
 Now listen, I don't what you do think.
 I'm not changing your job.
 I'm enhancing it.
 Let's say it that way.
 And I know a lot of you out there are like, you have got to be kidding me.
 Did he just say chief behavior?
 I don't run a daycare.
 I don't want to run a daycare.
 I don't ever want to run a daycare.
 I don't want to handle, I have to worry about running people's behavior and being responsible
 for their behavior all the time.
 I pay them a paycheck.
 Now this is the thing that I hear all the time and I get it.
 I used to feel this way early on as well.
 But so many entrepreneurs, business owners, leaders are like, I pay you a paycheck, have the
 right behavior.
 That should be the indicator that you should have a good behavior or work.
 Yes, I get it.
 So if we can move past those aspects, I think that if you just follow me, this is going
 to make a heck of a lot more sense.
 What we're talking about essentially is defining and shaping your culture.
 Now for me, I believe culture comes down to two things, actions and attitudes.
 I mean, that for me is it.
 I don't care if it's a culture inside of your business or a culture inside of a country.
 I believe it comes down to actions and attitudes, right?
 What you do and what your attitude is about it.
 So if we're going to put together a great culture, if we're going to say, you know, I'm not
 even going to go into the country stuff because right now that's just to inflate.
 But if we're going to have great actions inside of our company or in our family, then we've
 got to define what that looks like.
 And if we're going to have great behaviors or attitudes, then we have to define what that
 looks like as well.
 The key is it is amazing when you start to define and shape your culture how much power there
 is in a shared culture.
 What am I talking about?
 One folks follow the same culture.
 They have the same attitudes when they have the same behaviors.
 When they are all looking to move in the same direction.
 And they all want to feel good about what they do when you have all these folks operating in
 the same type of culture there is power.
 Now I can quickly contrast that and it will probably make a heck of a lot more sense to you.
 Look at how bad, how little power there is in a crappy culture.
 Look at how little power there is when you have gossip.
 When you have backstabbing, when you have people who don't even want to be there.
 When you have to try and force people to get their jobs done in a day because they are doing
 the minimum to get a paycheck.
 So if you look at it through that lens, think of the opposite.
 Think of the culture where people love showing up every day.
 That's not the kind of culture that doesn't have problems.
 It doesn't have issues.
 Our team loves showing up every day.
 We have problems.
 We have issues.
 We make mistakes.
 We screw things up.
 But my gosh, we move a lot.
 We make a lot happen.
 We help people.
 We help people to change their own lives.
 We help people to change their businesses.
 We get people great information.
 Great education.
 Our people love doing what we do.
 That's important to understand.
 It doesn't mean that a great culture is void of issues.
 I don't know of a single culture that is void of issues.
 But I can tell you a culture of people moving in the same direction, a culture of people with
 great attitudes, a culture of people who know what the actions are supposed to be.
 That's powerful.
 That is powerful.
 That's the kind of culture that has close team relationships.
 It's interesting.
 One of the biggest issues I see with leadership teams.
 This is the leadership team folks.
 This is tons of them.
 I always love it when I do a show of people.
 Listen to that.
 I know you're talking about me.
 I literally did not have you in mind.
 This happens with a lot of people.
 It happens so often.
 It's so common.
 One of the biggest issues we see with leadership teams.
 Black of trust.
 Now let me kind of explain that for a second because immediately you're going, oh well, we trust
 our team, you do with certain things.
 Every strap plan that we talk through, trust as a leadership team.
 One is the first strap plan.
 Many companies come back for multiple strap plans.
 But on the first strap plan, when we're talking through trust, what we discover is everybody
 things.
 Oh yeah, we trust each other really well.
 And then when we dig into what is your level of trust, it's surfacey.
 Well, I trust that they're good people that they've got my back, that they would tell me if
 my car alarms going off.
 If that, you know, it's not really deep stuff.
 When we press on, are you able to be vulnerable?
 Do you trust the people around this table with your vulnerability that's when we start to
 see a little bit of backpuddle?
 That's when we see people go, oh gosh, I never thought about that.
 Why not?
 Why haven't you thought about being vulnerable?
 Oh my gosh, I'm incredibly vulnerable with my team.
 I'm incredibly vulnerable with my leadership team.
 They're incredibly vulnerable with me.
 Why haven't you thought about that?
 Because that's not what we're taught.
 That's not what we're trained.
 You don't be vulnerable with people like that, Chris.
 You don't be vulnerable with, you don't let people in.
 You don't let them get that close to you.
 Why not?
 Do you know how much I'm not saying please?
 I am not telling you to go air out your dirty laundry.
 Don't go air out your dirty laundry to everybody and that becomes your your vulnerability.
 What I'm saying is, is when you trust somebody, it changes the level of communication
 you have with that person.
 When I know and one of the things that we talk about all the time, you know, we will find out
 a screw up that's happened.
 Something a failure that's happened somewhere and ask, hey, did you bring that to the leadership
 team?
 No.
 Why not?
 Well, I just thought I'd handle it myself.
 Why?
 Well, to be honest, I didn't want to look stupid.
 Okay.
 I get that.
 But did you ever think about that this is a team that you could tax the collective intelligence?
 That you could get input, that you could your failure might be teaching them how not
 to make the same failure?
 Well, no, I never thought about that.
 Of course not.
 And that happens over and over and over and over again.
 Why?
 Because that's not our concern.
 If we truly trusted people greatly and we knew that we could trust them, then we can share
 our failures and not only gain insight from what they see, but also help them not to make
 the same failure.
 Now, there's a lot of work that has to go into this.
 I understand, this is something that's a deep conversation that we have.
 But I want you to just kind of understand that if your team feels like they can trust each
 other, then that means that they can work closer together.
 They can have deeper conversations about things.
 They can not try and hide failure.
 They can focus on how do we make failure a great teacher and how do we focus on
 being successful?
 There is so much power in a team that is moving in the same direction.
 There's so much power in a team that has great behaviors, great attitudes.
 And on top of that, you'll be amazed at how much each team member at that point wants to
 see each other be successful.
 They want to see each other succeed.
 They want to share quality stuff.
 Here's how I did this thing over here.
 Hey, I see that you're working on that.
 Let me help you to see some of the pitfalls that I've seen before.
 It's amazing how much people become more concerned with the success of others.
 Folks, when you do that, when you help them to get to that place, when you as a chief behavior
 officer do things well, do this correctly, you will be just blown away by the positive outcomes.
 You will be absolutely blown away by the results that you start seeing in your teams.
 Your team members, with your clients, with projects.
 You will be absolutely blown away at the rate of speed things get done.
 What do I mean about that?
 A positive culture, a positive environment, folks with good behaviors, folks with good attitudes,
 folks making right actions, get stuff done.
 When you were a public, when you are in a positive mindset, how much faster do you move?
 How much more clarity do you have?
 How much more excitement do you have to accomplish things?
 When you are in a negative environment, and I know a lot of you out there right now, listen,
 I know if you were in that crappy culture, and you were busting it because you're putting food
 on the table and it's very difficult.
 I get it.
 Stick with it.
 I'm not saying stick with the culture.
 Stick with it until stay in prayer, focus on God, the open doors.
 And then when it's the right time, move to something else.
 If it's just super toxic, then you very well may have to just get out of it, right?
 But don't cut off your nose despite your face.
 Keep putting food on the table and pray for right options and be looking for right options,
 right?
 Because man, nobody enjoys being in a toxic environment.
 Nobody finds that beneficial.
 Well, the toxic person does.
 But a positive person hates that culture and doesn't want to be part of it.
 They're looking for a great culture.
 They're looking to be part of something better and bigger.
 So put food on the table, that's important.
 But be looking, but most importantly being prayer, right?
 Sorry for the little side, sorry.
 I'm not sorry.
 Some of you needed to hear that, right?
 Don't stay in a toxic environment.
 Prayer, diligence, be looking.
 Somebody out there is going to want you.
 But stay strong and stay excellent in the environment that you're in.
 You will be amazed if you keep doing your work as unto the Lord.
 Do your work for God.
 Not that toxic environment.
 You'll be amazed at how somebody's going to notice you.
 And somebody is going to want you to come be part of the team.
 All right.
 Side track, but glad I talked about that.
 We're talking about the positive outcomes, the results that you're going to experience.
 In your business, the speed at which things are going to get done.
 When you are guiding people to the right attitudes to the right behaviors, when you teach
 your leaders to be behavior officers, then it's amazing what's going to happen inside of your
 business.
 And again, you've heard me say this before, the size of our team, compared to how much we
 get done is stunning.
 Why?
 Because we don't deal with a lot of the crap.
 We do the things we teach.
 We do the things we teach.
 We have great team members.
 We have great attitudes.
 We accomplish a lot.
 All right.
 So what does it look like to shape your future as a CB?
 And again, yes, I'm saying this somewhat tongue-in-cheek.
 We're not changing your actual title to CBO to achieve behavior officer.
 But this needs to be something that is constantly top of mind.
 You need to take on this role as a attitude change for you.
 You need to prepare yourself for being this person.
 You need to prepare your leaders for being these people.
 And guess where it starts.
 With you, it starts inside.
 It starts by managing and improving your own behavior.
 Folks, I got to tell you.
 I have been in a very, very heavy stressful time over the last year.
 We have got a lot of things going on.
 We've got some negative crap going on as well.
 Now, this is just evil people being evil people.
 That we're having to deal with.
 And we're having to deal with it.
 We are staying focused on God and we're staying focused on being positive.
 But I will tell you, there are sometimes I don't feel so positive.
 There are times I'm just like, "Geez, I'm ready for this to be done."
 Right?
 And it wears on me.
 And I feel it.
 But I have had to check myself and make sure that I'm managing my own behavior.
 I've had to check myself and make sure that I'm not coming off as somebody who is struggling
 through negative crap.
 Right?
 We all have stuff that we have to deal with or we have seasons of it.
 Right?
 Now, this is a season.
 Now hopefully it's almost over for this aspect.
 But yeah, it's not easy.
 So what do I have to do?
 The first thing I have to do is stay focused on being great.
 I will tell you, if you are going to become a chief behavior officer or a behavior leader,
 or behavior officer, lower level leader who's going to continue to do the same thing because
 all leaders should be doing this.
 Doesn't matter what level you're at.
 Then focus on how great for you are.
 If you are a believer, are you constantly thanking God for all of the amazing things in your
 life?
 Chris, you just talked about, you know, you got a bunch of negative stressful stuff going on.
 Yelp.
 But I have a billion more positive God blessed things that are happening in my life.
 Even in some of the negative stuff that's happening, God has shown me ways of focusing on
 that that blesses him and becomes a blessing for me.
 It's amazing how without going into the details of what's going on, I will tell you that God
 revealed something to me.
 I pray the Lord's prayer.
 You know, most people pray Lord, forgive us our trespasses.
 We forgive those who trespass against us.
 We switch it to what the word means sin.
 You know, forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us.
 I've always thought about that and go, is there anybody else I've not thought about who I've
 not forgiven?
 Is there anybody that I've not, you know, and sometimes you get to work on it over and over
 again.
 One day in the midst of what's going on, I felt like God revealed, shared with me, "Hey,
 somebody is sinning against you right now."
 And I want those two people actually, I want, "Oh my gosh, I had not thought about that."
 And I felt like God was saying, "You keep praying that prayer, the sin's happening,
 currently, and it just blew me away.
 It blew me away because I always thought of that aspect of prayer is being forgiving people
 who have sinned against me in the past.
 Here I currently have two people who are doing it.
 And God is saying to me, are you forgiving them right now in the midst?
 Wow, you tell ya, it's incredibly difficult to forgive somebody who's currently sinning against
 you.
 It's tough.
 It's tough to spend time praying for somebody who is meaning evil for you, who is doing crap.
 And I will tell ya, that's something praise God has stopped down with my wife and I was like,
 honey, this is something we haven't even thought about.
 We need to be praying specifically for these people with what they're going through right now.
 And guess what?
 And something super negative, God revealed to us that it's difficult to pray at all times.
 You pray a lot.
 You pray a lot because we're still in the midst of this junk and we pray a lot.
 But it has changed our lives.
 It's allowed us to remove stress during a stressful time.
 And the greatest thing is it really helps you to recognize what Yeshua did for you on that cross.
 What He did for your sins.
 So if I want God to forgive me of my sins and I continue to sin throughout this life unfortunately,
 trying hard not to.
 But he does stupid if I want him to forgive me.
 And by gosh, I need to turn around and look at those who are struggling with sin as well.
 Even though this one is specifically trying to hurt people and forgive them.
 Give them for what they're doing.
 Wow.
 You want to talk about being grateful.
 That is a blessing of God.
 That's a blessing of God.
 So what am I saying here?
 Start with you.
 Check your own behavior.
 How are you acting?
 If you're just being hard, harsh, being a jerk, being short, not caring, not loving,
 then you cannot turn around and expect people to be loving, caring.
 You can't be all upset about people because they don't act the way you want them to.
 And yet neither do you.
 Start with you.
 Start with gratitude.
 Specifically to God.
 Start with being grateful.
 And I'm not in the face, please.
 I'm not talking about being super grateful for all the stuff you own.
 Yes.
 Some of those things are blessing sure.
 I'm talking about the more important things in life.
 What he's done for you would have continued to do for you.
 The amazing people that he has put in your life, the challenges, the
 the challenging people that he's put in your life to grow you closer to him, to make you
 more Christ like.
 Right?
 Make sure that you're being grateful.
 Second thing is learn personality styles.
 You can't lead people to better behaviors if you don't understand their personality style.
 If you do not know how to lean in somebody's direction.
 I want you to become somebody else's personality style.
 I want you to understand what motivates them, what causes them to have deeper conversations
 with you, what causes them to change their behavior, what excites them, what causes them
 to feel that they belong, that they're a part of something.
 If you don't know how to lean in somebody's direction, how to lead that behavior, that
 personality style into the right behavior, it's just not going to work.
 You can try.
 It is funny sometimes to see one person out of the heart.
 I don't beat up on the eyes on the show a lot, but I'm going to do it right now.
 High eyes.
 If I talk about a high sea doesn't like people.
 High seas.
 There are times high seas don't like people.
 They don't want people around.
 They want to be by themselves.
 Or they just want to be with one other person.
 Every super high eye goes, that's so mean.
 I can't believe you would say that.
 And the seas are all going, no, it's not.
 It's exactly how we feel.
 But a high eye who doesn't understand the high sea's personality style.
 And I'm talking about high, you know, way up there, 90s plus, 80s plus.
 If you don't understand their personality style, then it sounds mean to say that there
 are times that they don't like people.
 But it only sounds mean to the high eye.
 It doesn't sound mean to the high sea because the high sea agrees with it.
 I know that.
 I teach this stuff.
 I have to teach the high seas that a high eye needs at least a minute's worth of just
 personal chatter before you get into deep stuff.
 Can you just ask him how they're waking us?
 How are things with their mom?
 How's their dog that was at the vet's the other day?
 Understanding how to talk to people and understanding how to lean in their direction is a big
 massive piece of helping you to guide and direct their behavior, guide them to the right
 behaviors to the right actions and the right attitudes.
 So you've got to learn personal.
 Other thing you've got to do is man, you've got to learn how to lead people well.
 So this mean, I guess cartoon, I don't know.
 And it's just fabulous.
 I'm probably just going to send them my team and have them sending out.
 So I'm actually, but it's a farm around a cart.
 It's just a little drawing.
 You know, it's not a great illustration.
 So farm around a cart has got a one horse and a cart stuck in the mud.
 And so what does he do?
 He goes and gets two more horses and pulls the cart out of the mud.
 And oh my gosh, I wish I could remember exactly what it said.
 Oh, yeah, that's right.
 It said it said obvious solution add two more horses pull the cart out of the mud.
 Then it had a picture of the corporate solution.
 So the obvious solution was one horse can't get you out of the mud add two horses.
 Guess what the corporate solution was.
 Add three more people in the cart with whips.
 So you still got the one horse out front.
 Now you have four people in the in the cart with whips and it's still not come out of the mud.
 Listen, you've got to learn to leave people.
 You've got to learn that leadership is not about a title.
 It's about helping people to get to a destination that they wouldn't normally get to.
 It's about making people successful at doing what they do.
 It's about learning to encourage.
 It's about learning to inspire.
 It's about learning to have the answers even if you don't have all the answers.
 It's about learning how to get people to the answers even if you're not the one who can get the answer.
 Help people learn how to lead people to be successful in whatever it is that you're wanting them to do.
 If you can do that, then you can have an influence on their behavior on their actions.
 What does this role look like to you?
 First off, you're going to have to take a account.
 Your personality stuff.
 If you're the high-eye, you are excited about this.
 You will love this concept.
 You want to be able to go help people have better attitudes.
 You want to go help shape people's behavior.
 Chief behavior officer looks really good to you.
 What if you're not the high-eye?
 What if you don't recognize your strengths and weaknesses in your personality?
 Because the high-eye is the wrong way.
 The high-dees are the wrong way.
 You have to understand what your strengths and weaknesses in your personality style is.
 If you're a high-ess, then you're not going to do this thing until it feels like it's absolutely perfect.
 It's the right time and everybody's going to be okay.
 If you're a high-dee, you're just going to come and tell people they need to change your attitudes.
 If you're high-ee, you just don't want to do this all.
 The thing we have to take into account is what is your personality style and what do we need to change
 a just bring out of your specific personality style to lean in the direction of being
 in this role?
 What does that look like?
 If you don't like people, then how do we change that?
 What do we do about that?
 If you're not the owner and somebody who doesn't like people, then maybe you don't belong in
 this role.
 If you're not in leadership, then you don't belong in this role.
 If you are the business owner, if you are a leader, guess what?
 Psycho up, buttercup.
 You've got to make adjustments.
 You're in a different place.
 You have a different responsibility.
 The people on your team are your responsibility.
 So, suck it up.
 Learn how to make adjustments to your personality style so that you can care about other people
 as much if not more than yourself.
 That's a big thing.
 What is your personality style?
 How does it work?
 What are the strengths in being a CBO and what are the weaknesses?
 What does it look like personality style?
 Why is what do you need to change?
 What do you need to adjust?
 What do you need to add?
 What do you need to spend time talking with people that you can trust and be vulnerable with?
 In asking them to guide you on adjustments that you need to make.
 So I would say the role you have to know you first, start there.
 Know you.
 Make adjustments to what's not working.
 Make it change your attitudes and your actions to be the things that you need to set that
 cultural example.
 But also ask yourself the question, what aspects of communication are you struggling with?
 What's good?
 What's bad?
 If you're doing a great job communicating, are you getting all the right information out there?
 Are you caring about what people here?
 Are you caring about them getting to the right result?
 Do you know what it means to set an expectation and help somebody to get to that expectation?
 Look at all the different skill sets that you need to help somebody with their actions and attitudes.
 It's not just something you don't get to just sit down and tell them, hey, I need you to go do this
 and be this and then expect that it happens.
 If you can't model that through your own skill sets, then how are they going to learn?
 So vulnerability is going to be a big piece.
 How can you be vulnerable in helping other people see what it looks like to change your attitude?
 I had to have the conversation with my leaders one day.
 I didn't have to, I just chose to.
 One day I was just like, hey, listen, I don't know how I'm coming off, but I've had, you know,
 it's been a stressful week and I don't know if I'm being negative, but I just want you guys to punch me in the throat if I am.
 Now I want to make sure that I'm not coming off as somebody who's just being negative.
 And they're like, nah, I haven't thought about it, but I'm glad you mentioned it.
 And so I just wanted to make sure that I wasn't doing something that was causing them to go cheese for the love, Chris, we know it's stuff, but shut up already.
 Right?
 So you may have to really check yourself.
 Do you have aspects of your personality style that is not going to lean in the direction of helping somebody else have an attitude change, a behavior change?
 Right?
 So start there, start looking at your skill sets, looking at the things that you're going to do to help others,
 looking at your behavior, what does it look like, what your personality style, how's that going to influence people or affect people in a negative way, all those aspects?
 Then what does it look like to transition some of this role into your role?
 I thought you said, I wasn't going to change my role. No, you're going to enhance your role with this.
 So it's going to become something that's important to you to focus a set amount of time every day, every week, helping people, guiding people, directing people, focusing on setting the right culture, focusing on setting the right actions and attitudes.
 First thing you need to do is take a really hard look at your workload.
 If you were stuck in the leadership crazy cycle, the same all work out.
 Right?
 You've got to start looking at what are things that you can delegate properly to other leaders or other people.
 Things that you can get off your plate that are just things you shouldn't be doing anyways, that gives you back some time to get out there and lead your team to succeed.
 Lead your people in successful culture, successful core values, successful attitudes and actions.
 So you're going to have to start looking at where am I not able to spend time leading people now?
 With that being said, I'll say I have to think about this caveat.
 This should not be the bulk of your job.
 So if you just heard me say, I get to wipe my plate clean and just go talk to people all day long.
 That's not what I'm saying. You still got to do the most important roles of your specific role, right?
 As a leader.
 But we're stepping up the amount of lead in you're doing.
 We're stepping up at the amount of time you're spending with your team.
 We're stepping up the direction you're going with your leadership of helping people to have the right behavior.
 Right behavior, right?
 So what we're saying is that take a hard look at your day, take a hard look at your workload and ask yourself the question, what needs to come off?
 What's holding me back from leading people well?
 And if the first thought is, oh, geez, I don't want to give anything up because I don't know how to go lead people well. Well, we've got to prop.
 You don't get to take that way.
 We have to start with the first part. What do I need to change about me? What do I need to just about me? What do I need to know about my personality style?
 What do I need to know about my skills and then, you know, my my traits and my skill sets and what do I need to do to get myself into a place that I can lead people well right in this area?
 So start the first part.
 Then let's start getting things off of your plate.
 If you are slammed, if you don't have more room to go lead people into this, then some stuff got to come off your plate, right?
 You want to get some of those tasks out. The important stuff has to stay there. This is important too.
 But I'm saying you're the heavier aspects of your role need to stay on your plate, but there's a bunch of small stuff that you probably are doing that you don't need to do.
 Let's get those things delegated properly on your plate so you can spend more time leading the team.
 Now, I will tell you, some of the big challenges that you were going to face as a CBO are going to be communication issues.
 Let me just say gaps communication gaps.
 Here we talk about it all the time. Number one issue in every company is lack of high levels of quality communication.
 So you're going to have to learn how to fill those gaps. What does it look like to create quality communication?
 If you're going to go out there and you're going to help people with their actions in their attitudes, you can't do it by having bad communication.
 So first thing you're going to have to do or let me just say things to watch out for main challenges that you're probably going to experience and put it that way is watch out for those communication gaps.
 It can be severely confusing for somebody when a leader comes in and tries to guide and direct them and stuff, but doesn't really paint a full picture.
 It doesn't really get them all the information that they need. So if you want me to change my actions and attitudes, but I'm not really sure what the heck you're talking about, well then I'm confused now.
 Now the communication is actually worse.
 So if you want to guide me to a better behavior, better attitude, then make sure I completely understand.
 Make sure you're filling those communication gaps. Make sure you're helping me to get to clarity.
 Another thing is accountability.
 If you are going to help people to have better actions and attitudes, you've got to hold them accountable.
 You've got to hold your leaders accountable. You have to hold you accountable, right?
 What is the accountability piece that needs to be put in place to make sure that we're moving in this direction? We're saying this is a cultural change, right?
 If you didn't pick up on that, let me say this is a cultural change.
 If we're going to change culture in a direction like this, then what's the accountability piece that goes with it?
 How do we make sure that people are doing it? Doing it well? Doing it consistently?
 Is this going to affect any other accountability pieces?
 If I'm asking my leaders to spend more time leading people on this, and I'm making sure that the rest of their role is covered.
 Whatever it is, I want you to be looking through the accountability piece.
 Third thing. Oh boy.
 There's probably a decent number of you out there that may have some team members that when you start moving in this direction,
 they thank your alumni to them.
 You might have some team members that thank Frank's going to be over this in 20 seconds.
 Sally is going to stop doing this any minute now.
 They must have heard some guy on some show somewhere talking about this and they're trying to implement it.
 When this doesn't work out for them, when this fails quickly, they'll be over it and everything will get back to normal.
 This is very possible that what you will find is gossip as you're working on this.
 It is entirely possible that you will find some people who don't need to be in your business anymore.
 I'm not talking about large numbers, but you might find a person or two that as you move in the direction of better actions, better attitudes, behavior changes, greater accountability, greater communication,
 and may find some people who don't want it.
 They can't handle that. That's not why they're there. They're very happy that you haven't been holding them accountable up until this point,
 that you haven't been focused on their behavior up until this point.
 So you need to be watching cultural aspects of gossip.
 You need to be watching people to see if they're receiving this the right one. What if they're receiving it the wrong way?
 If you go out there and just tell somebody that they need to change their behavior, then they may be receiving from you that they're behavior sucked before this point.
 And they'd be losing worth like crazy because it appears as though you're coming out to tell them that they're the problem.
 Instead of recognizing that you're coming out to change the culture that you've set or that you've been leading.
 All right, so watch that. Watch the cultural aspects. Watch the gossip. Watch out people respond.
 Another challenge that you may face is leading people to meet expectations and key results.
 So if this is not done well, then what you can do.
 Some people can go over the top on this and then all of a sudden you lost the urgency to get the job done.
 And people just feel like all they need to do is sit around and have a good attitude and have fun and be positive and sing.
 Combia and throw the feet up on the desk.
 That's not what we're talking about.
 So you need to make sure that the behavior change you're looking to make is also very focused on the key results that you're expecting to get accomplished.
 If you expect them to do something, how do we do it with better attitudes?
 How do we do it with a better culture?
 How do we do it with behavior that's different towards our team members or people that we're working with or our clients or our vendors?
 What does all that look like? Why all accomplishing the expected results?
 So sometimes you have to understand that when somebody sees, oh my gosh, you just want us to be happy and joyous.
 Well for me to do that, I need you to work.
 That's that we're talking about.
 What does it take to change behaviors towards the work that you're doing?
 What does it take to be more positive about the outcomes?
 And sometimes that answer is, again, like I just talked about, you're going to be fine, some folks that just aren't going to cut it.
 They don't have that attitude.
 They don't have the right behavior.
 And so for some people you may also find that it's very difficult for them to be positive because of Jerry over here that they work with,
 or Susan over here that they're spending time with.
 Or maybe they've got somebody who's super gossipy and it's just negative or somebody who's always negative about everything.
 Nothing works. Nothing's good. Nothing's happy. Nothing's okay.
 So part of this may be that you're going to have a difficult time leading people to expectations while you're helping them to change their behaviors because it doesn't fit with their experience in non-adiali-basis.
 So let's make sure that you're paying attention to not just trying to change their behavior, but understanding why their behavior may not be the best in the first place.
 What could be causing this? What are they experiencing?
 It's been time looking at that and seeing, can you help them? Are there things that you can do? Are there people that need to have more accountability applied to them?
 Are there people that need some consequences? Whatever it is, and again, I'm not just saying that it's going to be the negative stuff.
 What I'm saying is watch out for all of these challenges, communication issues, kind of ability concerns, cultural issues, and people not hitting expectations.
 Watch out for those to make sure that those don't go in a worse direction they should be moving in a better direction.
 Okay, lastly, we need to take a hard look at the toxic practices, if you will, the toxic aspects of the culture. So here's what I want you to do.
 I want you to really start paying attention, writing down, discussing with leadership, the toxicity that you see, the negativity that you see,
 people who are not turning people well, people who are not following the core values of the company, people who are not following the already defined culture.
 If you already have things in place that people are supposed to be doing, and they're not following it, then I need you to start writing that down, you need you to start writing that down.
 Start paying attention to what you're seeing, know how to go out and identify those things for some people.
 It's almost like if I start to pay attention to that, right, those things down, Chris, then I know I've got to do something with it.
 Well, that's exactly what I'm going to say next to.
 So you're going to have to fix those aspects. You're going to have to fix the toxicity that you're experiencing inside of your business.
 You can't change people's behaviors in their attitudes if they're working in a toxic environment or they're working around toxic people.
 So some of the challenge that you're going to face are, you know, like I already talked about some folks don't want this.
 This may be scary to you.
 I, this is something I can only say to you that you just need to trust me on this.
 There are a lot of leaders that I have helped over the decades that fear losing that toxic person.
 That fear that once they lose this toxic person, this person has their hands and so many things.
 This person knows all the important details. This person is working with the most important clients.
 There's always a reason.
 I shouldn't say always. There's sometimes people are, all right, but kick out toxic people pretty quickly.
 Because they don't want to change, but there tends to be.
 Let me set that with a tends to be a reason or reasons that leaders don't want to face a toxic person.
 Because they're afraid that the importance of this person or the importance of what they do is so.
 Big, it's so outstanding.
 You know, that I can't let them go because I can't let them go because they affect so much of our revenue.
 I can't let them go because they're the only ones who, the only person who knows how to do these out.
 There's all these things that crop up in a leader's mind of all the leaders that I have helped over the decades.
 My team has helped over the decades.
 I will tell you this, I don't know a single leader who regrets walking through a proper process walking through a proper, I mean, be very clear, walking through a proper accountability process and a toxic team member left who was seen super vital.
 I don't know of a single leader that has ever said, "Oh my gosh, I really regret that."
 "Oh my gosh, that tanked our business."
 "Oh my gosh, we lost so much momentum."
 "Not one."
 Now, is it a difficult process? Is it rough? Sure.
 Is it something that's not fun? Absolutely.
 I'm not going to sugarcoat.
 It's tough.
 But the thing that is tougher is how much it's affecting your current culture by leaving a toxic person in place. Hear me. Hear me.
 If you don't believe me, go ask team members.
 If you have a toxic person and you know it, I guarantee your team knows it.
 If you ask them how difficult is it working with this person, you're going to get some surprising answers.
 I may not be so surprising. You're going to get some answers that you may have been avoiding.
 So, there are things that you need to do. You need to start paying attention to the toxicity.
 You need to start paying attention to the people who aren't doing what they're supposed to be doing.
 You need to pay attention to the processes that are not being followed.
 You need to pay attention to the accountability aspects that are not being followed.
 You need to pay attention to leadership who is not holding people accountable.
 These are things you need to do.
 The more you put and solve these aspects, the more you put accountability in, the more you do it with a great heart.
 And, you know, a great desire to change people's attitudes, great behaviors.
 You're going to start to see other stuff or go to the surface.
 The more you do this, other things are going to start to jump out.
 As they do, pay attention. These are the things that you're going to have to fix.
 These are the things you're going to have to change.
 So, as you see, you know, you're starting to help somebody with something and something jumps to the surface,
 solve it, fix it, put together a strategy to fix it.
 Do whatever it takes.
 Get new tools to fix it.
 Whatever you can to solve the toxicity, right?
 To solve the things that are are keeping the new behaviors from taking place or making it difficult for the new behaviors that you put in place.
 So, some of these things may be difficult, some of them may not be.
 Some of them might be super easy.
 What you may just discover is that a reason why a lot of the attitudes are the way they are is because you may court too hard for your to do.
 You haven't solved things for them.
 Haven't gotten them the right tools to do the job well or the expectations on them are not in line with what you're paying them to do.
 There's all different kinds of things.
 You may just find some stuff that's not that crazy, terribly difficult.
 And you may find something that are tough.
 Either way, solve them.
 Don't just try working on behavior and then bad stuff crops up and you go,
 see, Chris was wrong. This doesn't work.
 Folks, if Chris is wrong, how come Chris is Dean?
 Well, I'll show them up every day.
 How's great attitudes?
 Does great job?
 Right?
 So, you are not hearing me say this is going to happen overnight.
 You're not hearing me say this is going to be easy.
 But I will tell you this, a result of becoming a CBO chief behavioral officer.
 I can't believe I gave say this.
 Let's crack in me up. But you understand exactly what I'm talking about.
 A result or the benefits, the impacts in your workplace are going to be stunning.
 Think of the first thing we're talking about.
 Changing culture for the love.
 Cultures the number three issue we see inside of every business.
 And what are we talking about in this whole show?
 Making it better.
 Actions and attitudes. Culture comes down to actions and attitudes.
 We're talking about making those better, which means in turn,
 we are directly saying your culture will be better.
 That's what needs to happen.
 A great benefit, a great impact on your company is a better cultural,
 who's that kind of fact?
 Not just the team.
 It's going to affect your clients.
 It's going to affect your vendors.
 It's going to be great because your team is going to want to work with other team members more.
 They're going to want to do things together.
 They're going to take more ownership.
 It's going to change your finances.
 Again, I can't stress this enough.
 The point-maintain our team is not as big as it would be if it was some other company.
 Because of this stuff. So guess what?
 We have more money that we can do more stuff with.
 We can move more things around with.
 We can hire more people.
 It affects your finances.
 What happens when you have clients?
 So folks, those of you that have ever worked with our team,
 you're still here for a reason.
 You must have experienced the team who treated you well.
 They must have taken care of you.
 Otherwise, you don't want to be around the team like that.
 You don't want to be with people who treat you badly.
 You're having bad attitudes or every time you talk to them, they're just negative.
 So it's going to change your finances.
 It's going to change your clientele.
 It's going to change your customer service on top of all this.
 And I know a lot of you struggle with millennials in your workplace.
 On top of all this, I can promise you that it will have an impact on the engagement of the team.
 On the engagement of the millennials in your workplace, especially if they're remote.
 Right?
 But all in all, it doesn't matter what age you have working for you.
 This will affect everybody.
 So with all of this being said, let me once again speak to the importance,
 the importance of personality styles with communication.
 Especially if you're going to change your culture.
 Folks, if you, if your team isn't working through personality styles, if you have not taken your team through the video,
 and I'm talking about this personality styles, you gotta do it.
 You just have to do it.
 It will make your job a thousand times easier.
 You will make it so much better.
 So make sure that you're going and getting a disc products.
 It will help your team work.
 It will help you understand teams.
 It will help your team understand each other.
 It will change a lot of the relationships if they're strained.
 People will work on setting up other people for success.
 It is fabulous.
 So go to crsacrido.com/store for more details.
 That's crsacrido.com/store.
 Folks, that is all for today's episode.
 We hope you found the discussion Bible.
 Folks, we want you to stay tuned as we go through more discussions like this of helping you.
 To become a much stronger leader.
 A much stronger business on all of you folks out there.
 They are not leaders.
 Hopefully you're taking this information and making your roles better.
 For parents, hopefully you're taking this information and making your parenting better.
 Now we would love to hear from you.
 I'm telling you, this is, we really do want to hear from you.
 This is our heart.
 We want to hear your stories.
 We want to hear your experience.
 We want to hear your insights.
 So please feel free to share them with us at podcastacrisacrido.com.
 Super easy.
 Just send us even if it's just a comment.
 But we would love to hear stories and sites.
 Anything podcast at crsacrido.com.
 Folks, that's all the time we have for today.
 I hope this information will help you.
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next videos.
 [Music]