 On today's episode we have an exciting topic to discuss that's crucial for leaders and business
 owners and that is understanding the S personality style and its influence on conflict.
 Stay tuned for insights that can help you embrace harmony in your team dynamics.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today we are talking about the third episode in a series on personality styles.
 We have covered the D personality style that I personally like.
 Today we are talking about the S personality style and who they are and how they function
 and how they work in teams and all that kind of fun stuff.
 And today I want to start by kind of introducing the S personality style.
 Now the high S personality style is a very stable, amiable person.
 This is somebody who it's funny as I teach on the highest personality style I will say
 they do not like conflict, they do not like conflict, they do not like conflict, they cannot
 stand conflict.
 High S personality styles really do not enjoy want to be around, they want to avoid
 as much conflict as possible.
 They are very empathetic type of people, they love harmony, they want the least amount of tension
 and relationships that they could possibly have.
 They are the kind of people who are really good at listening to others, they enjoy everything
 going incredibly well in their life.
 If everything is going well, if everything is in harmony, if everything is stable, then
 they feel good about themselves, everything must be right, they tend to be sincere, they're
 incredibly loyal and incredibly supportive people.
 Unfortunately a negative side to high S is that can get steam rolled over many times and
 still be very loyal, they're very consistent, they love helping other people.
 It is incredibly important to who they are, it is a high value, even to the point that they
 will help others when they won't help themselves.
 It is something that's more important for them to see other people's be successful than to
 see themselves being successful.
 They will put their stuff aside to help other people.
 They cannot stand conflict, they can't stand a loss of stability, they struggle heavily
 if they feel like they have offended somebody else.
 Again, as I'm talking about this, I'm talking about the high S, the lower the S, the less aspect
 of this there is, but if we're focusing on that high S, then we need to recognize all aspects
 of that personality style as much as we possibly can.
 If they are in a very difficult situation, then they usually will choose to go internal.
 They usually will choose to become passive, to focus on themselves, to not get involved maybe
 step away from the situation.
 They can have a tendency if things become less stable to think that they're the problem, that
 they're the issue, if things around them are going pretty crazy, pretty tense, it's probably
 their fault.
 They will internalize a lot, they will spend a lot of time looking inside seeing if they did something
 wrong.
 It's interesting when we do next level of life events, more than not.
 Most other times the fastest events are high S's.
 The reason why I mean our goal isn't to get through them fast, but a high S is very introspective.
 They've spent a lot of time looking at themselves.
 We're all personality style, spend time looking at other people and trying to figure out what's
 wrong with other people, why they're affecting them, is it their fault.
 The high S will have a lot of time in their life where they're looking internally to see,
 have they done something wrong?
 They made a mistake, they will analyze the daylights out of themselves.
 So interestingly enough, when we sit down, we always say that it's not difficult for people
 to see the what in their lives, but what's really difficult is to see the why.
 The high S has a tendency to see the greatest amount of what they can understand that something
 already exists.
 And as we go through things and hit things and they recognize it's funny because the response
 many times can be "yep".
 Okay, I see it.
 You have to ask yourself, "Do they see it?"
 Or are they just responding that way?
 And they do?
 They get it, they understand it because they've already looked at certain aspects.
 So when you help them put the puzzle pieces together, it makes so much sense.
 So what is important about understanding the S personality style?
 For you as a leader, if we're talking about you as a leader, an important thing is to recognize
 what does it look like to have a high S in a team setting?
 So a high S is going to be very concerned with helping others.
 The reason this is great is because they become phenomenal support.
 The highest does not want to be the center of attention.
 They don't want to be the front person.
 They would rather be the number two person who's behind the scenes taking care of others.
 Who's behind the scenes supporting.
 So when you look in a team setting, if you ever try to make a super high S, the one who's the
 out front face of a project face of a team, type of person, they are going to struggle immensely.
 It is going to be very difficult for that person to be in that role.
 Because that is not where they want to be.
 They love supporting.
 They love helping.
 They love being behind the scenes, running down things that other people wouldn't take care of.
 So in a team setting, it's absolutely fabulous.
 Another thing is that they are very empathetic.
 They are great at building relationships.
 Now they are not going to be your great networker.
 You're high eye.
 Even your D, those are going to be folks that do a great job in networking.
 They love the people interaction.
 They love the groups that in the high eye loves the group setting.
 D doesn't love the group setting, but they can deal with it.
 The high eye is going to be the one who gets out there in the group setting and loves creating
 relationship.
 The highest is not that person.
 They don't want to be out in front of everybody.
 However, they are really good at building relationships one on one.
 They're really good at empathizing.
 What somebody is experiencing, what they're going through.
 They're great listeners.
 So again, this is a strength to you as a leader to have high S's in your team.
 Is there going to do a great job understanding what's going on?
 Now with that being said, there's a couple of negatives that go along with those two things
 that I just pointed out because they love helping people so much, because they love taking
 care of people, because they love being the behind the scenes person.
 They will have a tendency to put the stuff that they're responsible for aside to go help
 somebody else.
 They will very likely fall behind if they get caught up going and taking care of other people.
 Unfortunately, there is a word that manipulative people learn when it comes to high S's.
 All they have to do is say the word need, "Hey, I need you to help me on this."
 Or I need some help on this.
 If somebody says that, then a high S is like, "I am here for you."
 Standing at attention.
 I'm here.
 I will help you out.
 What they end up doing is doing something that somebody else should be doing on their own.
 And a lot of times the stuff that they should be accomplishing falls to the wayside.
 So these are things that you have to understand.
 Also with that empathetic relationship building, a negative side to this could be that they
 may spend a more time than you want focusing on the relationship aspect.
 I'm not talking about just talking for toxic or not wanting to work what I'm saying is that
 they find the ability to do a great job through listening, through being empathetic, from
 building relationship.
 So sometimes they can spend too much time doing that very thing and not recognize the importance
 of the things that need to get done.
 So these are powerful things, these are strengths, but they can also be weaknesses as well.
 Another aspect of understanding the S personality style is the risks versus opportunities.
 You will see the high S showing away from risks.
 You will see the high S not grab on the bull by the horns when it comes to opportunities.
 They like stability, they like things to stay the same, they like things to be consistent.
 So a high S is always going to shy away from the heavier risk.
 They will jump on to opportunities if they feel like they understand it.
 Nobody's going to get hurt in the process.
 Nobody's going to be affected in a negative way.
 It's not going to reflect badly on them.
 And as I said before, the tension and conflict is something that they so avoid that if any
 risk or opportunity looks like it's going to have even a small, a mark and a amount of stress
 of conflict, then they're probably going to shy away from it.
 They may even become somebody who pushes back.
 Why do we need to do that?
 Why do we need to make that happen?
 I don't think that's a smart idea.
 You also may see them procrastinate like crazy because getting involved in that thing, if they
 don't procrastinate it and they get involved, then it may bring conflict quickly.
 If they procrastinate, maybe it'll just go away.
 Maybe it won't be there in another week or two.
 Important things for you recognize as a leader.
 So what about the high S's influence when it comes to conflict?
 Now, to help a high S personality style handle conflict, the first thing you have to understand
 is what I've said 14 times already.
 They hate it.
 So if you are somebody who's a high D, a high I, you probably don't understand this.
 I have had so many business owners in the past say Chris, how many to get this person to go
 do this thing?
 And as they explain the job and the thing that they want them to do, I'll say they're
 high S, aren't they?
 Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know what you say about high S is just you would have some tips and tricks
 that I can get them to go do this.
 And I'll be like, they can't go and do it because it's not something that they want to do,
 it's something that they hate.
 It's pure conflict.
 Yeah, yeah, I understand.
 I understand.
 But how do I get them to go do it?
 And then I'll always usually flip around because it's usually a high D or high I personality
 style that's really trying to push S into going and doing something.
 Well, surely they can do it.
 Of course they can accomplish a book.
 Chris, I believe in them.
 And I'll say, okay, let me ask you a question.
 Are you able to sit in a cubicle doing the same exact job day in, day out for the next five years?
 Oh, gosh, no.
 No, I could never do that.
 Exactly.
 That's the same thing for your high S. You're asking them to go do something that is way
 outside their comfort zone that has high conflict that is not stable.
 That's the reason why they don't want to go do it.
 There's no tips and tricks.
 If I gave you tips and tricks to manipulate them into going and doing it, what you're going
 to discover is they're going to fail miserably.
 And eventually what they'll do is they'll back their way out of it, or they'll cause themselves
 to self sabotage their way out of it.
 So no tips and tricks.
 You have to understand the first and most important thing is you need to recognize they hate
 conflict.
 Period.
 No ifsans are about to about it.
 If you understand that, then you can help to leave them through conflict.
 So what you need to be looking for is what are some common sources of conflict.
 Common sources are not having enough information.
 If you do not give the high S enough information, and it feels like they're going to
 fail, that's going to be a peace of conflict.
 Another source is, again, as I spoke before, trying to get them to step up and be the face
 of something.
 That is huge conflict.
 The biggest, probably, the largest area, the largest source of conflict for high S, is if
 they believe that something they're doing or that they're going to do could potentially
 hurt someone.
 Man, that's a big one.
 They cannot handle that.
 They hate that.
 That is something that you will see them back away immediately on.
 So if you understand the common things that cause them conflict, instability, lack of information,
 having to make a decision for a group of people, somebody might not like the decision that
 they made.
 If they had to make a decision on going to dinner for 100 people and 99 people said it was
 great, but one person hated it, then they were a failure.
 That's how they feel about it.
 These are the things that cause a high S to go internal, to procrastinate, to pull back, to
 draw back, to remove themselves from the situation.
 And so when you come along and you're wondering why they're not doing anything, your frustration
 is probably about the amount of work that they've done instead of understanding why that's
 as far as they've gotten.
 So things that you can do is provide solid strategies for effective conflict resolution.
 What does that look like?
 Understand.
 And then discuss.
 Make sure that you help them to see one of the things that I will do is I will ask enough
 questions to see what their biggest struggle is, what their fear is, what's the conflict,
 and then I will help them to see how the conflict is holding them back.
 Do you see how this is impacting you?
 Do you see how much stress this is bringing on you?
 And of course, a lot of times the highest will be like, yes, of course I do know that.
 Then I will help them to understand why the thing is necessary.
 While also helping them to see that it is not going to affect them in a negative way.
 This is a decision that needs to be made, that this is a project that needs to be worked on,
 that these are steps that must be taken, and showing them why and how important they are,
 helps them to overcome the conflict.
 It helps them to see that this is something that has to get done period.
 And then helping them to see how it's not going to hurt somebody or affect somebody in a negative way
 is a huge part of being able to remove that conflict from that situation.
 It's a great strategy in helping somebody to go, okay, I feel really calm, I feel stable,
 I understand this thing, I'm still going to be watching out for the unknowns because something
 might bite me in the button.
 So I'm struggling with that, but I now feel like I can start moving forward.
 So as you leave this personality style through conflict, you have to recognize if you're
 not a high S, then you probably don't handle conflict the same way that they do.
 You probably handle it almost opposite of how they do.
 High D's, you eat conflict for breakfast.
 High eyes, you can work your way through conflict, you can charm your way through it.
 There's a lot of things that you can do to get yourself through conflict.
 High C's, you can't stand conflict either.
 So you're going to understand this better than anybody else, but if you can recognize that you
 can't just tell them, well, just do it.
 We'll just get over it.
 It's going to be fine.
 Trust me, trust me does not work with the highest.
 When they feel like all of their conflict, sirens are going off the warning signs, then just
 telling them to do it or telling them to trust you is never going to be the thing that causes
 them to feel good.
 They will be stressed out the whole way.
 If you can explain it out, help them to see it, help them to understand it, help them to know
 that there's no negativity coming from this.
 They're not going to be a bad person.
 They're not hurting anybody.
 Then you can see them settle in, feel more stable and move forward with the project, the
 task whatever it is.
 Another thing you need to do is you have to over-emphasize the value of clear communication.
 You gotta make sure that the communication is immense.
 For a high S, the conflict part in communication, many times is asking a question, gaining
 perspective.
 Many times they don't want to ask questions.
 Many times it's a struggle and listen, as I'm going with the role of this, I want you to understand,
 I'm an 88 S. I am a high S. The tools that we teach are the very things that I have used
 for decades now to be able to overcome this kind of stuff, to be able to work with this stuff
 and get to a place of being curious and get to a place of gaining quality perspective.
 I don't have problems asking questions of people.
 I will ask people sometimes I have to make sure I don't ask too many.
 Sometimes I so enjoy gaining perspective.
 Why?
 Because as a high S, it gives me stability.
 But for most S's asking a question is pure conflict.
 They don't want to sound stupid, they don't want to feel stupid, same thing with high C's.
 And they're afraid that by asking a question you might think that they're dumb.
 You might think that they're failing.
 So you must over-emphasize how important it is to have clear communication, how important
 it is to gain quality perspective.
 And on top of that you've got to emphasize that it must be a mutual understanding.
 Now, I understand that by saying that some of you think that as long as I understand what
 I understand that's enough.
 No, you have to mutually understand how much information they need to know.
 You have to understand how important it is that they get all of the information that allows
 them to feel stable and do the job that they need to do.
 So what about coaching and managing the highest personality styles?
 One of the best ways to motivate and engage highest personality styles within a team is to
 explain to them the importance of their role.
 Is to explain to them the importance of the support that they provide.
 Is to explain to them the importance of the stability that they can provide to a team.
 Is to continue to encourage them to listen and dig in and find ways of helping somebody as long
 as it doesn't override the things that they're responsible for.
 But if part of their role is that support role, then that's exactly what they need to hear.
 I need you to jump in here and help over here.
 I need you to look at this project and find the holes and the things that are going to fail and
 find me the conflict.
 That's a great thing that you can tell us.
 Yes, say, hey, tell me where this thing can be bad.
 Tell me where this can hurt people.
 Tell me where this can affect people in a negative way.
 They know how to find that.
 It's just that people don't ever give them the green light to go do it.
 Once they have the green light, they will come back with the information because now they know
 that it's okay to point out the things that they see maybe negative.
 The ways that this may fail in hurt people.
 But if they think they're responsible for it and affecting people in a negative way is going
 to come back on them, well, then you have to understand they're going to shut down.
 They're going to become incredibly difficult to motivate.
 The encouragement is not going to work in this moment.
 You have to put all the things in place that I've discussed already and then motivate them
 to go find the things that may be failure and help to solve it.
 On top of that, you have to teach them the tricks and the tips for minimizing conflict for
 getting to conflict resolution.
 How do I not take this thing personally and how do I approach this project, problem situation,
 what I think team member, whatever it is, and focus on resolving the conflict.
 How do I get the conflict out of this situation?
 If you can help them to get there by walking them through, by explaining, by discussing,
 by asking questions and getting them to talk through what the conflict actually is, then
 you'll be amazed at how much easier it is for them to work towards conflict resolution.
 Why?
 Because one of the biggest parts of the highest is that empathy.
 If they can see that something may hurt somebody or may affect somebody in a negative way
 and they can empathize with that situation, then they can be encouraged to go help remove that.
 If the conflict is between them and another team member, once again, make sure that you're
 not steam rolling over the highest, make sure that you're helping them to understand healthy boundaries,
 what it looks like to put healthy boundaries in place, what it looks like to stand their own
 ground, which is okay, but help them to try and recognize, like we talked about in, I believe,
 the last episode, help them to understand where the other person is coming from, help them to
 understand and they're going to do this more than any other personality style, they will actually
 give the benefit of the doubt quicker than any other personality style.
 Help them to get to that place where they are recognizing what somebody is experiencing, what they're
 going through, but also make sure that they understand the need for healthy boundaries.
 So I want you to solve this, I want conflict resolution, but I don't want it to be
 at your expense because you caved, you gave in, help them to have quality conversations,
 help them to use the strengths of empathy, of understanding, of stability, of harmony,
 help them to use those strengths in solving the conflict in itself. A big part of that is allowing
 them to prepare well before the conflict resolution. Many times, I will talk to leaders or business
 owners that are high S's and I will say before you have this, you know, difficult conversation
 with a team member, this tough conversation with a team member, sit down and write down all the things that
 you need to cover, write down all the pieces that you need to go over and discuss with this person,
 because what will happen is you'll just look at it as a topic and you'll start the conversation
 and they will think faster than you and push back on you and say all kinds of stuff. And then you're
 going to forget all the things that you wanted to talk about and you'll get lost in the conversation.
 High S's will do that, they'll get lost because somebody can speak faster, talk faster, and they
 can't process as fast. So instead, what I always tell a high S later is, write down all the things,
 and so this is for all high S's, write down all the things that you want to talk about with this
 person that you need to resolve conflict with, and then make sure that we keep coming back to solve it.
 So if they keep deflecting and going in a different direction or throwing somebody into the boss or
 blaming you on it, make sure that you stop it and come back and say, "I'm sorry, can we just
 answer this first? Can we get through this piece first? I need to get to what is the answer here? Why
 did this happen or why, why is this something that I don't feel like you're answering right now?
 Help me to understand what happened here. Keep bringing them back to your list.
 To go over, doesn't mean that they can't have their own list and doesn't mean that you can't
 discuss those things, but if you find them deflecting and moving on or guilt transfer any of that kind of
 stuff, then just bring them right back to the list. Hey, this is something that didn't get coverage yet.
 Can you help me to understand this? By doing so, the high S can work through the conflict,
 by doing so, the high S can get all the things that they needed to discuss discussed,
 and then we can discuss anything that the other person wants to discuss, right?
 So it helps them not to just get lost on a conversation and then two hours later have all the
 things that they should have said, right? So it's an amazing thing for me. When I have helped folks,
 I remember I was down in doing an event, we were out of the country in Mexico,
 Cancun doing this big event, and I was sitting at the table at dinner table outside
 with this gal in her company, and she was talking about some problems that she was struggling with.
 I was trying to help her. I was laying out options, here's some things you can do, everything I said,
 she was like, nope, nope, nope, that wouldn't work. Nope, we've tried that before. No, and every time
 she responded, I was going, well, you in my mind, well, you couldn't have tried that otherwise,
 you wouldn't have the same results, right? And I just kept seeing this pushback in my heart,
 as a teacher, was to keep teaching and help help help help help. And I asked,
 was to help until I realized, oh my gosh, she's not going to be able to get through this, she is stuck
 in a spot that she can't get past. And so, definite highest personality style on the other side of
 the table as well. And so I said, hey, do you mind if we just shift subjects and we can talk about this later?
 And she was like, okay, and I was actually done as a teacher. I was like, I can't actually do any more.
 I need to stop because everything is being met with so much resistance. So we stopped and moved
 on to something else, talked about something else for a while. The next day, I saw her walking across
 the lobby. And I said, hey, do you have time for us to go back through all of those things and
 discuss those again? And she goes, nope, no, no, I'm sorry, did I offend you? And she goes, no,
 I just spent time thinking about it and what you said it was correct.
 Oh, great, fantastic. Is there anything I can help you? No, I've got it. I just know, I need to go and do it.
 And so what it happened was, is that it was all the things I was mentioning in that moment or conflict.
 Now, this was a business owner. She was coming across very strong, you know, that she was able to
 accomplish things. And in the beginning, I believe that she had tried some of these, but it wasn't
 until later that I recognized I am shoveling conflict on this woman. This is terrible. And it's not going to
 be beneficial. I just need to stop. She needs, you know, 20 minutes to an hour to go process this stuff.
 And sure enough, when she processed it, then she came back and she was like, yep, all of that's correct.
 That is that stuff that I need to do. So the best thing that I could do in that moment
 was to let her go and think in process or just change subjects, trying to continue to give her ways to
 solve stuff in that moment was absolutely pointless. It wasn't pointless to share things that I
 think she needed to do, but to try and drive the point home until she got it was a waste of time.
 Because it wasn't a conversation about me as a teacher helping her, it was me giving her conflict
 in her mind. Once she had done a process through it, then she could see that those were things that
 would definitely work and they had not done that before. They hadn't tried them before. And then she was
 going home to go make those things happen. So if you do a great job coaching and managing and helping
 somebody see what they need to do and helping somebody to understand what they're experiencing
 is conflict in the time, if you help all of these pieces, all these aspects, then you can help the
 high S to be a great team member. You can help the high S to manage situations incredibly well.
 You can help the high S to be successful at overcoming conflict and you can help them to operate
 in all of the strengths that they have. So consider this a powerful tool in your belt that you get to
 use to lead the highest personality style and also on top of that lead others to interacting with
 the highest personality style. So a big piece of this again, we talk about it all the time as
 the importance of personality styles, importance of communication, especially for something like this.
 If your team does not know how to communicate well together, then it's going to be the thing that holds
 all this back. If your team cannot lean in each other's directions and understand and clearly communicate
 and set each other up for success, then it's going to be the thing that holds us back. So make sure you go
 to Chrislicker.com/store and get the disc products. Make sure you get at least do the disc.
 I highly suggest the disc plus that has the values. Make sure that you watch the video with your team
 that is powerful. It's great. It's very funny and it allows them to have great conversations out
 towards and start leaning in each other's directions. Now many leaders are frustrated because they
 don't have time and tools to lead well whether its personality styles or other areas of the business
 period. Your day gets filled up with fires, people drama meetings that are simply a waste of time
 and you never seem to get to what's important and what actually moves the business forward.
 Reading books and listening to podcasts aren't helping and not much about your work life is changing
 for the better. The thing is, the reason is, most leaders do not know how to implement what they've learned
 assuming it was good information to start with. What if it wasn't? And this is why we created
 the next level leadership live event. If you feel frustrated or stuck about work these days,
 then go to christlicker.com/events. That's christlicker.com/events. Registration opens to
 December 1st with $500 off of every ticket you buy but that's for a short period of time.
 You'll learn lessons we practice daily in our business that are only taught at this event or inside
 one of our coaching programs and you'll have hours of workshop time and access to our coaches right there
 at the event. So go to christlicker.com/events to get your limited time offer before it slips away.
 Well folks, I hope that today learning how to understand the highest personality style better is a game
 changer for you. I know that it is a game changer in conflict management that is for sure. By recognizing
 and adapting to this style, you're empowering your team to handle conflicts more effectively
 and nurture a collaborative work environment I promise. If you just put these pieces in place,
 these tools in place, you will be amazed at how with this personality style conflict diminishes
 inside of your business. Now we would love to hear your stories and your insights so feel free to share them
 with us at podcast.chryssacristo.com. Well folks, that's all the time we have for today. I hope this
 information has helped you. As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your
 business, change your life and join us on the next episode.