 On today's episode, we're talking with former Army Special Forces member, best selling
 author, and serial entrepreneur Jeff Kirkham on leadership, mental health, and improving
 yourself.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life, and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today we have got a great guest on the show.
 I am super excited to welcome Jeff Kirkham to the show, Jeff, welcome to the show.
 Thank you so much.
 It is so good to have you on, and normally I would go through a bio, and I'll talk about
 some of the stuff you've done, but I'm going to hit you with something that I love.
 That's on your Instagram.
 It says, "If James Bond, Q, and a caveman had a baby, it would be me."
 Now that's just, that's awesome.
 Tell me about that.
 What does that mean?
 So, some of my guys, years back, and ready man kind of came up with that as a joke, and
 when I read it, I laughed, and I was like, "Well, if other people read it, then they'll
 laugh too, but it's also, it's like, "Well, okay."
 I think that the James Bond refers back to my former life and special operations.
 Then the Q portion is, "I've got several patents, so I'm fixing and improving different stuff."
 Then the caveman portion is, because I've got a big guy, and I've got a big head,
 and big hands, and so it's, I think if I had giganticism, I got the big head and the big
 hands, but I'm only like five, seven and a half feet tall, so that part of that makes me
 slip, and I don't know.
 It just makes me laugh, and so I just like, "Yeah, I like it, so I just kept it."
 Big head, big hands, big heart.
 A lot going on.
 As we get into this, first thing I want to do is, I want to thank you.
 I want to tell you how much we appreciate what you've done.
 Now we are huge fans of our military, our police, those who are taking care of us, you're
 in the special forces.
 That means a lot to us, especially with all that's going on in the world right now, but that
 has always just been something that we are super grateful for that.
 The men and women that allow us to do what we get to do on a daily basis.
 So thank you for that.
 But I tell you, you've done so much more than that.
 Drug enforcement agency, government contractor, entrepreneurship, you own black or apple coffee company,
 which a lot of people are enjoying right now.
 I know you got a lot of folks that are drinking that coffee, ready man, which I cannot wait
 to talk to you more about that.
 You're going to be here in Nashville on stage with us at the next level leadership live event.
 I'm looking forward to just picking your brain on breaks and stuff.
 And also rats, not RATS, not a goal, which I'm sure you're going to explain that to us as well.
 But on top of all of this, best selling author of the black autumn series.
 And if that wasn't enough, you just put yourself through nursing school and you're doing
 what's called a re-wilding and I look forward to sharing that to folks about how you're helping
 in the mental health areas.
 So with all that said, you got to be tired, just listening to me, call all the things
 off that you're doing so.
 So what are you working on these days?
 You know, I'm working diligently to cut more and more stuff away so that I can focus on the
 mental health aspect of getting out there and helping people.
 I literally just came from another business appointment where I was trying to, I've got
 to get that's interested in picking up one of my, one of my side businesses and letting him run
 with it so that'd be really cool.
 And as I'm really diligently trying to focus in more on the re-wilding the wellness self-improvement
 retreats.
 Yeah, it's a gash.
 Tell me about the black autumn series.
 So that's a black autumn is a really interesting story in of itself.
 So way back when the co-author Jason Ross, when we wrote this, it started out as kind of a conversation.
 So kind of like in the movies where you see these two guys that are playing this chess game
 that's been going on for months or something like that, well, this was the conversation,
 Jason, the co-authories that are very accomplished outdoorsmen and emergency preparedness and
 stuff.
 But you've never been in the military and you've never been a cop.
 So when we got together, he asked me, he's like, "Jep, how do you think the world can stumble?"
 And I was like, "Well, here's how I think it could happen."
 And so we had this continuing conversation over a period of time.
 And at one point, I think it was Jason that said, "Man, this would make a really great novel."
 Because it was, "Well, if this happened then that and so on."
 And so it was kind of like the building of this story.
 And I had started writing a science fiction novel when I was in Afghanistan as a way to decompress
 when I was coming home from missions.
 And so we get in a like about three o'clock in the morning and you're all jacked up on caffeine
 and adrenaline and you're, you know, you're, I mean, it's like you're literally too tired
 to go to sleep and your brain is just spinning.
 And so it's too late to work out.
 It's too dark to go for a run to try and calm yourself.
 So I started writing another science fiction novel.
 And you know, when it's about a special forces guy in Afghanistan, you know, big surprise.
 And but there was monsters, right?
 And so he's fighting monsters and stuff like that.
 Well anyways, I took that.
 It's never been published.
 I took that manuscript and gave it to Jason.
 He read it and he was like, "Oh my gosh, we could do this."
 And I was like, "Well, let's do it."
 And you know, what has it been like six years later were, you know, 10 books into it into the series.
 The series is over and it's all about the post, it's a post-apocalyptic novel that takes place
 in the Salt Lake Valley and we're lucky enough.
 We're blessed enough that angel studios who is famous for the chosen as well as sound of freedom.
 They said, "Hey, let's make a movie out of this."
 There's a series.
 And so they're literally right now filming the series up in Bountiful at the homestead that's in the book.
 And that's happening right now.
 So I mean, it's so cool.
 I mean, it's just really cool.
 It's every author's dream, right?
 Yeah, no kidding.
 I mean, just the thought of being able to get one book written and get that out and let it be a success.
 But you've got 10 and that's moving into a series, so that's pretty darn fantastic.
 And given credit, we're credits do like the co-author Jason, the guy is an absolute machine.
 He's like a new power plant that just, he could just hammer and hammer and hammer.
 So I'm so lucky to have somebody like him with me that has really pushed everything across
 the finish line.
 We never intended it to be a series or any of that.
 And it's kind of a funny story.
 When we first wrote the book, it was like 800, 900 pages long and then we were to the publisher.
 They're like, you're not Stephen King with a stand.
 Nobody's going to read, post a Pac novel that's that long.
 You've got to, so we chopped a bunch of characters and stuff out that later became the
 novella's in between the main books.
 And that's how we ended up with so many books.
 So it's not a huge, huge, pure accident.
 That's awesome.
 Now tell me about Ready Man.
 So Ready Man is our, is our company.
 We've shifted more over to the literature for more information, for people to read.
 We still have some of the products that I developed, but Ready Man is emergency preparedness,
 survival, stuff.
 We slowed down because of COVID on the training stuff that was there.
 But Ready Man is still alive and pushing forward.
 And if we could get social media to keep from, from canceling our pages, they, they like
 to delete our pages because I guess they don't dig what our message is, you know, so for
 alliance and anything.
 It's funny.
 We're not even controversial.
 But we, we got to pull literally woke up like three months or four months ago and to
 Instagram, deleted our page.
 So, you know, what, it, and of course, when I got that, I was like, well, of course, because
 it was like the fourth time social media deleted our page.
 But, but, and literally, you, you've got stuff out there like, I love the credit card size,
 you know, fish hooks and tools and everything that's all in one piece so that if you are
 out and about, you literally can help yourself to hell, with such horrible thing.
 Such a, both thing, yeah.
 And that's, you know, and so we went, and that's where predominantly with the books, it's like,
 well, books are, you know, pretty in aquas.
 When I, when I burn in books in the streets, yet, but, but, is like, well, maybe the
 lettuce get away with it with the books.
 So, there's a bunch of instructional books on there as well as the black autumn series.
 And it's a growing library of self-lites.
 So we still have our products like the wilderness survival card that you just spoke about and
 how to just get card and whatnot.
 Well, I love it because, hey, we have a large farm homestead where we're moving a lot of
 our business to and all that kind of fun stuff.
 But I mean, it is just made it when everything happened through COVID.
 If you don't look at it even in a aspect of, you know, the world's going crazy.
 If you just look at supply issues.
 Yeah.
 And the way that, you know, it was amazing how much we were able to start looking at our own land
 and go, well, I don't know if we don't get anything.
 If we're struggling and getting things out here, then we can take care of ourselves.
 We've got stuff here, we could do, we could set things up.
 But the thing I do love is you do go beyond that and say, okay, how do you, how do you
 get in a very smart way, very intelligent way, just protect yourself?
 From anything that could happen, you know, some of those apocalyptic creatures come out of
 the books, then they show up at your home set.
 But I mean, seriously, the ability to just protect yourself when things, you know, things
 do go bad.
 So, you know, what is that message?
 One of the big messages that we have that's really coming out in the movie that we're
 in the series that we're putting out is, you know, is growing things and raising animals, brings
 people together.
 And that solves a big problem because isolationism is horrible on human beings.
 And so I teach this in our mental health stuff where why it's so incredibly important for
 you to be surrounded by a community, a good community that uploads you.
 And so if you think about like, prison, right?
 How do we, how do we punish prisoners?
 We punish prisoners by putting them in isolation.
 And it's so incredibly effective against human beings that they now know, if we leave people
 in isolation too long, they will go into psychosis.
 It's only a matter of time.
 And it is so effective, it even works against the social paths that are out there.
 And so we have to have community in ready man.
 We were carrying the flag saying, hey, because prior to us, it was like everybody was like,
 I'm alone wolf, I'm going to go to the mountains and hunt deer and feed my family and
 is like, no, no, that's a myth.
 That's not going to happen that way.
 You're going to run into problems.
 And so when we wrote black autumn, we looked back through history.
 And we saw where the apocalypse give or take, you know, using that as a catch all term,
 we saw where the apocalypse had overtaken people.
 And they were living in the post-apocalyptic world.
 And that's where the number of people that we got between 150 to 200 people for settlements.
 That's where we derived the bunch of the information that we then put into the black autumn
 series that we're now putting into the movie so that we could say, hey, this is our best
 guess and our best guess of what could happen and how people would handle it.
 We actually looked back at history.
 And interestingly enough, in Afghanistan, when you got out into the middle of East to Bid,
 nowhere, the majority of the villages were about 150 people to 200.
 And as soon as they got bigger than that, they would split just like the tribes did on the
 planes and all the way back that eventually, when it got a little bit bigger, they became
 city states that then, and then it would grow and everybody knows about that.
 But that's where a lot of that stuff came up.
 And so in the movie is really one of hope because with a community, you get past the point
 of, you know, hey, what's the whole point of living if the whole world is falling apart at
 the end just?
 And community and family is what brings that hope which uplifts us.
 Yeah, you know, it's amazing as you talk about that.
 We from my wife and I, we just, we have a place we call the ridge again, we're, we're
 moving our business there as much as we possibly can and we turned it into a big farm.
 And our goal was we were just going to get five acres somewhere and put a couple of chickens
 on there and my wife wanted a dairy cow.
 And God blessed us with a much larger place and then he showed us some things that he wanted
 us to do to be able to utilize this place to help people.
 In this process of setting up this home set and just dramatically growing a farm to take
 care people from a health conscience aspect, everything is super healthy, all that.
 We have come across so many people that we are now in community with that were not in our
 normal community and the amazing thing about it.
 This is the thing that has blown me away.
 The folks that we come in contact with that are trying to take care of their families, they're
 trying to take care of their small community, whatever they're trying to live healthy,
 they're the salt of the earth.
 I mean, they are incredible people.
 We've not come across to anybody that we're like, well, we need to stay away from them.
 It has all been, oh, wow, we're creating another network of people in just a different
 area and the great thing is it becomes a resource.
 So you know people that are doing things that you're not doing.
 You might be doing something farm-wise or construction-wise or whatever and then you know
 somebody else who's doing something that you're not doing, you can come together all that
 kind of fun stuff.
 And I just think that's super amazing that you know you're bringing awareness to don't be isolated.
 And I really, if you go ahead.
 I was just going to say it's like you need amazing people and you can't do it all yourself,
 right?
 And you need somebody that knows a little bit about electronics or mechanics or whatever that
 is.
 And then part two, like in the show is, and we bring this out in the second novel, which is called
 White Waste Land, where it's really like we're God and faith starts coming in.
 So you get to know your communities and it's really interesting.
 It's almost certain, dip it is.
 Now history is showing that it's probably a belief in a Supreme being is what started the
 earliest communities and bringing people together so that they could talk about that and get together
 with these findings that they're in ancient Turkey and whatnot.
 And so, and that's where with us with Black Autumn is when we shift over in Book 2, which
 is White Waste Land, the aspect of faith that comes in to help people get through the hard times
 and how utterly important that is to human beings, at least the world according to Jeff and Jason.
 And I think you can say, I agree.
 I mean, you have to do, as look at COVID.
 If you, I think most people on the planet understand a lot of the statistics that came out
 of isolation in the how mental health just declined in suicide rates and I mean, it's just
 a hoarding.
 So I love that you guys are doing that.
 Talk about rewilding what's going on there.
 I know you guys, do you have your own camp?
 What's going on there?
 So we use a, there's a beautiful ranch that we use that's in Southern Utah.
 It's called the home stead ranch, not home stead ranch, home stead with an L home stead
 ranch.
 It was, it was designed as kind of a, of a retreat for people.
 So there's, there's really nice cabins and stuff like people stay in there.
 And what we do is we've taken a very, we're a little bit unusual because in the retreat space,
 it's, it's typically dominated by women.
 So and that always, but I mean, the majority is, it's women.
 The facilitators are women and the attendees are women because women tend to be more in touch
 with their emotional self than guys are because.
 And we tend to be distracted or we blow that stuff as kind of hippy stuff and whatnot.
 And so so we're a little unusual in that almost all of our facilitators are men.
 And the people that come to the rewilding is, is, is, are men and women.
 The term rewilding, you'll appreciate this Chris comes from John the Baptist when he came
 man and he was known as the, is the wild man out in the, because he was living in the desert
 and stuff.
 And so the inspiration for rewilding, the company, the group is Mustang medicine.
 And one of the main guys is by the name of Hugh Veil and he trains and teams or gentils,
 wild Mustangs, which is no, no small feat.
 If you know anything about wild Mustangs, they are big dangerous animals.
 So we use them as kind of a metaphor and part of the stuff that we practice.
 And so the rewilding, what we do is we share different techniques for people on the,
 how to handle and regulate their nervous system to help them get through, you know, day to
 day life and we have everything from people that have had horrible trauma all the way up
 to see eos that are just like, look, I'm, I'm actually pretty stable.
 I just know I could be better and they, and they find us through literally through word of mouth.
 And we run them through different somatic experiences.
 It's a very gentle and pathetic way.
 It's not, you know, big bad green break Jeff yelling at people in the waves that they need
 be stronger and stuff.
 I, you know, maybe that has a place but not with me.
 You know, that must, I'm right now.
 You know, the must day, you know, I don't do that.
 It's a very gentle, a positive, you know, we do positive peer pressure.
 But, you know, we'll do coal plunges as part of the somatic experience.
 And we explain why it's important both physiologically as well as emotionally and why that
 works.
 But, you know, when we tell people, look, maybe a coal plunge for you is you just get into the water
 up to your knees.
 That's okay.
 You decide what you need.
 We can't tell you that.
 You decide what you need.
 And so it's a very gentle reminder and we do, you know, we do a heat and the coal and we do
 breathing.
 And we've really, it's been so meaningful and so substantial that people have come to us
 afterwards and said, look, I just want you to know, I was, you guys were my last stop.
 And then I was going out in the desert and I was, I was going to end it all.
 And I stopped to do you guys and you, and you guys showed me that, hey, there's, there's hope,
 there's a way that I can maneuver my way out of this.
 You know, we're not a, we're not a silver bullet by any stretch the imagination.
 But we, we tell people, here are some tools, take these tools, you know, breathing, heat, whatever
 that we go through over the weekend, take these home, practice them, share them with your
 community, work on building your community so that you're surrounded by good uplifting
 people.
 And then that's the tribal rise all ships.
 And so that's, it's really, it's a, it's a message of hope, but it's a message of hope with
 tools.
 And so, and we refer to the ancient texts like the Bible and whatnot, more on the psychological
 aspect, because the Bible as a psychology text is like, is, is amazing.
 It's, it's like, it's so fascinating.
 And so, and so, or many of the other ancient texts that we bring in that we talk about,
 as well as modern stuff as well.
 But that's really as my, is my big, you know, that's where my heart's at right now.
 That's, that's our big focus that we're, we're really spending a lot of, you know, brain
 calories on to, do so.
 Well, I love it.
 There's, it is so hard, because there's a good chunk of people who are listening that
 are like, gosh, that, that seems so extreme.
 That's not something I need.
 And you, you may not.
 But what we discount in what we, many times, just don't understand as somebody who deals with
 people who've experienced a lot of trauma, you know, we've, we've done over 500 next
 level life events and a lot of those have had folks that have dealt with trauma right
 now dealing with children that have gone through a lot of trauma.
 A lot of folks don't realize that there are people out there that have been through stuff
 that they haven't experienced.
 And they may look like they're living a normal life or halfway decent life.
 And the body, the, the book, the body remembers the score as the body remembers the score.
 Body keeps the score.
 Body keeps the score.
 Such a fantastic example of what people are going through that you may not even realize.
 Yeah.
 And a lot of folks, you know, I'm, I'm one of those folks who's been through a lot of trauma.
 But for me, it's been a deal with it get over it move forward.
 There's a thing in my life where I couldn't stay in it.
 I had to figure out how do I overcome this and move forward.
 So the point that I end up discounting what I have been through that the body does remember
 a lot of this stuff.
 The body does, you know, think of these things.
 And so as somebody who's able to overcome a lot of stuff, it's just out of the grace
 of God.
 I mean, it's just the blessing of God that God put me in a place to start learning, researching,
 studying how to overcome this stuff and then help a bunch of people with it.
 But a lot of folks hearing this don't realize that there's a ton of people out there that
 are struggling because the body does remember.
 The body is keeping that score.
 That there is trauma that they've experienced.
 But I remember without going into the details, there was some torture stuff that I experienced
 when I was a kid.
 And I think it was 20 some years later.
 Somebody just in a funny random way touched me, not anywhere inappropriate.
 But touched me in a way that my immediate reaction was, "Don't ever do that."
 And I went hold on, wait, what just had to actually catch myself and go, what just came out
 of me.
 And it was something referring back to something I experienced 20 years ago.
 And there wasn't a control over it.
 It wasn't a, it was the body said, "Stop this right now.
 This is bad."
 So for the folks, I'm going into all of this detail because there's a lot of folks out there
 that are listening to this, that have experienced stuff.
 Unfortunately, they may have discounted it as being something that's really affecting them
 and something that's really impacting them and something that's affecting decision making.
 So if you're listening to this, any of this is landing, you gotta look into this.
 This is something that you need to pay attention to.
 Just get the information.
 Just take a little bit.
 It doesn't, you're not losing anything by looking into it.
 But understand there are people out there like Jeff, like us that recognize you have been through
 stuff and really want to help you try and heal.
 Again, it's not the silver bullet.
 There's a lot of work you gotta do with it.
 But I just feel like there's a lot of people that need to hear that.
 So thank you, Jeff, for doing all of that.
 And I like to say too, it's like, the example I tell people is, look, it's like a workout
 right when you go to the gym.
 And I ask people, I was like, who has found that one workout when you go to the gym, you can
 go, yeah, I'm done.
 I never have to come into this place ever again.
 That's it.
 I nailed the workout and it's like, it doesn't exist.
 It doesn't exist.
 It's a continuous thing.
 But when you do it with purpose and you do it with perspective and you do it for rationalist
 so it's the things of why you're doing it, that helps open up that understanding of like, oh,
 that's why I reacted that way or that's why I react that way when these other things happen.
 Because this goes back, there's near-term stuff that we deal with and then there's stuff
 that's all the way in the past, you know, that when we are kids or whatnot and everybody's
 a little bit different.
 But then all of a sudden it's that understanding that we can go, oh, okay.
 And then that helps us get curious because the opposite of anxiety is curiosity.
 And if we can switch that perspective and say, okay, why is this happening and get really
 curious about it, then we can start peeling the onion and that's when we really we start
 elevating our consciousness and moving forward.
 I mean, I just had a couple of weeks ago because nobody's perfect.
 Everybody's dealing with their own personal demons and whatnot.
 So it's just like workouts, right? What workout works for you doesn't necessarily work for
 me and that's where we give people a plethora of tools.
 But a couple of weeks ago, I was in an event and there may have been somebody there that
 died into stuff in the past with a business dealing and whatnot.
 And I was kind of like, I didn't want to talk to them and the business had business hadn't
 gone well.
 And so when I was leaving the place, we got into the car and my kids started saying, and I
 ended up blowing up at them.
 And I'm a very mellow guy, but I ended up blowing up at them.
 My wife had to kind of put her hand on my arm and be like, hey, what are you okay?
 Chill out a little bit.
 And so when I got home, because I've been doing this work, I could then sit there and go,
 cure curiosity and go, why did I blow up on my kids with a realization of, oh, this was
 triggered.
 I mean, that's a term that's used way too much.
 But we said set off, this had lit the fuse that then led to me.
 So I went in and I, you know, and it's like, I understand that it was about me and what
 I was making it.
 So I went into my kids and I was like, hey, look, I was wrong.
 You know, they're young kids and I was like, look, I was wrong.
 And my, you know, my middle kid who's just got a huge heart, he's like, it's okay, Papa.
 And I was like, no, it's not okay.
 I, that was not appropriate.
 And it, and it still makes me frosty because it's like when you know you're being a good dad, because
 he was, he said, okay, dad, I forgive you.
 And I was like, that was like, man, you know, my heart just grew and it was, it was an amazing
 experience.
 But it's, it's through this so we can, we can learn to change our perspective and start
 peeling that onion and get curious as to why we do those things and then these different
 tools that would help us manage and regulate our nervous system.
 Yeah, I've always threatened to put a big sign in our event space that just says be curious,
 because so many folks, you know, like you said, I love the way you said it, the opposite
 of anxiety, well, what creates anxiety, internal focus, so focus, loss of worth, loss of, of,
 of believing other people believe in you.
 The whole internal, oh my gosh, what's wrong with me, even if, I mean, or something's coming,
 that's going to make me a bad person, that's going to hurt me, that's going to know all
 of those things.
 Now, there, there is the legitimate anxiety of, oh, gosh, that's a bearer that's 50 feet away
 for me.
 Great.
 But so much is self-created, self-focus.
 And if you are self-focus, one of the things we say is when you are self-centered,
 you can't possibly gain quality perspective.
 You can't, because to gain perspective, quality perspective, you have to care about something
 else other than you in the moment.
 And if all your focus on is you in that moment, you can't be curious, because every, your whole
 mental capacity is focused on the anxiety, the thing that's wrong with you, the struggle.
 If you can stop, go hold on a second, shut down the thinking, get away from the lies, stop the
 emotional process.
 Let me try and move into the logical side of my brain if I can.
 What just happened?
 Why did that happen?
 Then like you said, all of a sudden, oh my gosh, I can tie that all the way back to this thing
 over here.
 And the great thing is, because the struggle is when you are in that anxiety and somebody
 pushes on you, hey, are you okay?
 Well, of course I'm okay.
 And the kids are just being irrational or this is just, all of a sudden you go into that self-protection.
 You compile it by the defensiveness, the self-protection.
 If you're curious, it allows you to stop and go crap.
 Let me take responsibility.
 I just screwed up.
 And you did something that I so love that we try to help people to get to is to not allow
 people to rescue them when they do take responsibility.
 By you saying, no, it's not okay.
 This is me.
 And so I love that we had no plan on us hitting this section.
 This is great.
 This is a fact where I've got all these leadership questions I'm going to ask you, but I think
 this is just so powerful for us to get into the emotional and mental health side of things.
 But the reality though is that is true leadership.
 I mean, it's like leadership story from Afghanistan.
 We had, it be me in a couple of other guys and we would have a hundred Afghan commandos that
 we had trained.
 So we'd lead training and advise these guys.
 And we'd cram as much information between their years during the day.
 And then it was like, okay, get your rifle and we'd go hit targets at night with these guys.
 And my survivability and the other Americans that were there, we were very small groups.
 Like three or four of us.
 And source survivability was a direct result of how well we did training these guys.
 And so, you know, when inevitably the Americans that screw something up or, you know, the wrong
 place it get bombed or the Taliban or Al-Qaeda would blame us for something that we didn't
 do.
 And it could just be outrageous stuff and these guys would get upset.
 And on the leadership side, you know, with the Afghans, they're not Americans.
 You yell at them.
 I mean, they'll shoot you.
 And so it's like, you have to win these guys over, right?
 And, you know, build relationships across and that report.
 And I remember distinctly there was one time.
 They just had this outlandish idea that we had thrown prisoners out of the back of the helicopter
 and it was like it was absolutely not true.
 And some of the guys had even been on the helicopter and had fallen prey to this story.
 And I was like, did you see anybody in there?
 No.
 And I was like, well, but at one point I told them I was like, guys, we are human beings.
 Just like you are in Americans.
 We are not perfect.
 We screw things up.
 And we will continue to screw things up.
 And we're doing the best we can.
 And I was like, and you know that you can always get a fair shake for me.
 So it's like a half of the United States.
 I was like, I'm sorry.
 We screw things up.
 And for those guys, you know, fast forward, you know, was it been 15 years later or something?
 I did the same thing with my son that I just told you about.
 But it was one of those moments where all of these guys that were, they were like literally
 ready to mutate, looked at me and were like, oh, okay, thanks.
 And they, you know, they went back to the barracks and they were good to go.
 And so it's, I think all of this stuff ties into leadership because people will follow authenticity.
 They will smell a fake just like they'll eventually smell a scum.
 And people want to follow authentic people.
 I mean, in TV, you think about, you know, reality TV was such a huge spike in everything.
 And it was fantastic because of the authenticity.
 And then what's killed reality TV, they started figuring out their phone ascript.
 And it's like, that's not authentic.
 You guys are lying.
 It's the same thing.
 And it's the same thing in business.
 It's the same thing in life.
 It's the same thing in being apparent.
 Because authenticity is synonymous with integrity.
 And nobody wants to follow a wire.
 Yeah, I think that's so powerful because that was going to be, that was the first leadership question
 I was going to ask you was like, what did you experience like, how did that skill set play in everyday
 missions?
 And just so people know when you say go hit targets, you're not talking about target practice.
 You're talking about live targets as you go out at nighttime.
 So this is, you're training people and people putting their lives on the line every night.
 So how difficult was that?
 So obviously, you just gave us a great example of, what is it?
 It looked like to lead people who probably have a level of trust for you, but it's so shocking
 to hear the response.
 If you're arguing with an American, you're arguing with an American.
 Tell these guys something and they shoot you.
 It's because you've gone somewhere deep inside of them.
 That is unacceptable.
 You've reached them.
 Obviously, something that we don't understand in America is the shame and honor society,
 that shame and honor, what that's like in a Middle Eastern world is all about shame and honor.
 It's that back and forth on there.
 How difficult was it?
 Or let me ask you this way.
 What did you do to learn how to adjust your leadership to speak to somebody you didn't fully
 connect with?
 Man, that's a great question.
 And you know, somebody wants to ask me, they were like Jeff, because I was in a counter-terrorist
 unit for 13 years.
 So I was back and forth back and forth back and forth to either Iraq or Afghanistan predominantly
 for 13 years doing the military, what we called direct action operations, where I was working
 with these indigenous commandos, these Afghans, predominantly I'd specialized in Afghanistan.
 So I had years on the ground, but over there, working with these guys.
 And somebody wants to ask me a very similar question to what you just asked was, Jeff, if you
 could name one thing that contributed to your survivability, what was it?
 And I thought for a little while, I was like, well, earlier in my life, I'd served this
 missionary for my church.
 And I'd gone to Korea on my, you know, for this as a missionary.
 So I had to learn the Korean language is very difficult for Westerners to learn, because Korean
 is actually as a very complex language.
 And since that time I'd studied a bunch of other languages.
 But Koreans, they've got different nuances than we do here in the United States.
 And so you have to learn how to get along with people that don't see the world the same way
 that you do.
 And going to be successful.
 And so I took those lessons with me to Afghanistan and to Iraq.
 And it was building those relationships of trust, building rapport so that these guys knew
 that if I told them something that I was being authentic and that I had integrity.
 And I'll tell you another story.
 We're in Afghanistan.
 I was in Canahar, Afghanistan.
 The guys in Canahar were more religious than the guys up north and Kabul or the other areas.
 They're very religious.
 And so it Americans at that point in the war, it was about 2007 or 2009.
 It's all kind of meshed together.
 But I was, but Americans, we would not, when we were on assaults, if we were assaulting like
 building multiple buildings in a village, Americans did not go into the mosques.
 And the Afghan commandos could go into the mosques because we're very sensitive to the point
 that we did not want to desecrate what these religious institutions were very sensitive to that.
 And so anyways, we're having a briefing and I'm sitting there as the advisor with my commanders
 in Afghan and the interpreters interpreting them.
 And we were working with the seals that night and the seal commander is giving the briefing.
 So he'd say a few sentences and then the interpreter would interpret.
 So at one point, the seal officer was up there and he was like, and there are mosques on the
 target and no Americans will go into the mosque.
 And so the interpreter interpreted that.
 And then the commander whose name was Bashir started talking back and forth, back and forth,
 the interpreter and the seal commander was like, "Hey, is there a question?"
 And the interpreter said, he said, "The commander agrees with you except that Mr. Jeff, he can go
 into the mosques.
 No other Americans can go into the mosque, but he can go into the mosque."
 And immediately the other seals that were on the, all the heads turned to me and they're
 looking at me and they're like, "Well, what makes you so special?"
 And they grabbed me afterwards and said, "What's up?
 Why?"
 You know, what's going on there?
 Did you convert to Islam or something?
 But I was like, "No, these guys know that I respect them and that I won't do anything that
 is going to cause them to run into moral ethical issues, especially in the mosques."
 And they're like, "Oh, wow."
 And again, that's a tentative.
 That's leadership either in business, that's leadership in the military.
 And that's leadership really in your family too, where it's like you're watching out.
 You've got, you've just got that integrity that people know, what you say, what you mean,
 and you mean what you say, and you stick to it.
 Yeah, I think that a big G is being able to anticipate a person.
 If I can anticipate that you have integrity, if I can anticipate that you have honor.
 And it doesn't, you know, I mean, you're talking about seals.
 I mean, these aren't guys that are, these are pretty good guys.
 But their goal isn't to go in and be dishonoring and destroy stuff for no real purpose.
 These are guys that are very intelligent, well trained.
 And so it's interesting that the difference is not that they don't have a respect for them.
 It's that you've proven yourself to a point that they understand you have honor.
 They can trust your integrity that you're not going to go and do something that goes against them.
 How do you see that playing out as you come home?
 And you've created 47 billion businesses and you really, really did that translate well
 into leadership here as you deal with.
 I'm a, I don't want to make a bad assumption, but I'm assuming you're around the Gen X age.
 Ish close to how did you use those things that you learned or the things that you implemented
 there here?
 Yeah, so my Gen X or I think so I'm almost 54.
 So oh yeah, so you're definitely Gen X.
 Yeah, I guess I'm a Gen X or I or Gen Y or I don't know what.
 I mean, I've been 50's.
 You know, it's like, you know, if you read the ancient text, so we'll take the Bible, right?
 If you read the Old Testament, you read the New Testament and you can say this with anything.
 And I had this realization years ago, I was reading the Count of Monty Crystal by Alexander Demoth.
 And it was like, you know, the book was written like 150 years ago.
 And I was reading it.
 Or struck, I was like, holy cow, human beings have not changed one bit.
 You know, and at that age, it was like, that was a long time ago.
 Well, now it's like you read the Bible, right?
 And you read like the Old Testament or whatnot.
 And not to not to go on a religious bent, but you figure the Bible is at least 1000 years old.
 Well, you know, depending on where you, where you fall in the scale, I think we can all agree.
 It's at least 1000 years old.
 Well, guess what, you read that thing on the psychological side.
 And it's like, we have not changed one bit.
 Human beings react and do smart things and dumb things the same way that human beings do now.
 100%.
 And so that's where it's like to the civilian life and the military life or the law enforcement
 life or the family life.
 Human beings are human beings.
 And if you treat people with respect and authenticity, then they know where you stand.
 If you plant that flag and you're like, this is me, I'm planting my flag.
 And the rewilding we call it a summit statement.
 You could call it a mission statement or whatnot.
 But this is where I plant my flag.
 This is what's important to me.
 This is where everything that I do is guiding towards this.
 And when you have that, then you have that authenticity where it's just like, no,
 I'm not, I'm not compromising my personal morals and ethics because I know where I'm going
 because I get a direction.
 I've got a land navigation.
 I've got an asthma, the direction of where I'm going in a destination there at the end.
 And it absolutely translates across all things.
 And I'm not going to say, could you be successful in a business or in the military, anywhere else
 by being a, you know, an amoral, a non-efficle person?
 Absolutely, we see it every single day.
 But I will tell you that striving to do that for me in my life makes life so much more joyful
 and the people that I attract.
 It's interesting, like, I work with people that are in direct competition with some of the
 businesses that I have.
 Direct competition.
 So I'm the same stuff.
 And people ask me, they're like, why do you do that?
 And it's like, because the world is so big, the ocean is so broad and it's so deep that if
 I capture just a smidge in with these people that I'm working with, we're all super happy,
 we're all super successful.
 And now I've surrounded myself with people that are thinking and love the same things that
 I do.
 And so it makes life so much more enjoyable.
 And like, problems that I'm trying to solve, I can now call people that are in the same
 ministering and go, how did you solve this?
 And they tell me, and I'm like, oh my gosh, you just saved me a week's worth of headaches
 and brain damage.
 Let me know that.
 Thank you so much.
 And it's reciprocal.
 It's back and forth.
 So it absolutely translates across, I believe, across all the different layers.
 100%.
 So something we're huge on, you know, this is, well, what we see with every company that comes
 in doesn't matter who you are, where you're from, what you do, lack of high levels of
 quality communication is the number one issue period.
 It's always the biggest issue.
 Because where did you learn how to communicate?
 You learned from the last leader, learned from parents who learned from maybe a football coach.
 And if somebody has not taught you what high levels of quality communication look like, then
 you just don't get there.
 I mean, it makes it very difficult for you to choose to do it on your own because you don't have
 the training on it.
 You've obviously learned what it was like to have communication in high levels in a war zone.
 What was that like as a leader?
 What was the priority?
 How did you go about it?
 What was the experience?
 You know, I think I think good communication, high level quality communication.
 I mean, you know, kind of jumping forward to jump back.
 But we see this in a reality with people that have relationship issues where it's like, where's
 your, where's your communication?
 You know, in their home life is chaos or turmoil.
 And it's like, well, if you spoke into your, your significant other about, you know, your
 wife or your husband about this stuff, well, you know, I try to.
 And it's like, well, that means you haven't.
 And so a communication, it's interesting because in the military, the number one thing that we
 figured out, the military will dump millions and millions and millions and dollars on the latest
 and greatest communications equipment because we have found the number one thing, you know,
 beyond the raw material of the human beings that are behind the communication.
 But communication is probably at in level of importance.
 It's probably like number one or number two.
 Because that's how you work is is cohesive units.
 So the United States, we are the best in the world hands down at kick and other people's
 behinds when it comes to war.
 And it's not because we're the strongest.
 It's not because we're the fastest.
 It's not because we're the most accurate with rifles or even because we have the best equipment,
 although we do have great equipment.
 It's because we work as cohesive units.
 We talk to each other and we combine as in a team effort so that we can accomplish the
 mission.
 And the reality is we're very unusual in that way.
 And that I've traveled all over the world and worked with foreign militaries all over the
 world.
 And it's always been interesting to me that other militaries will map support other parts of the
 military.
 Air Force doesn't want to support the Navy, the Navy doesn't want to support the Army or
 why not because of internal conflicts that are going on.
 And at its core level in the military, as soon as things are going on,
 we're always there to help support.
 You know, nine times out of ten, we're there to help support each other.
 And that starts with communication, 100%.
 To that is so good that's such a great picture as we're consistently trying to teach leaders
 and business owners and team members.
 How important communication is it's amazing that when you look at it in a picture of war that
 the cohesiveness, it just screams the importance.
 Right.
 If I'm telling you that you need to communicate with your team members here, you know, in
 California or New Jersey or Alabama or whatever, you're like, yeah, yeah, I mean, we're
 still just going to come to work and do what we do and make our widgets and move on.
 I'll try to communicate well.
 But when you paint the picture of this is war, not being cohesive kills you, not being cohesive
 causes you to lose.
 It changes the picture of how important it is to communicate well.
 So if you can plug that into your business that creates widgets and recognize, no, nobody's
 going to die here.
 No, you know, people are coming to work for eight hours and going home and probably spend it
 too much time on texting or social media.
 But if you understand the concept of cohesion and what the productivity is, then it changes
 the importance of communication.
 Yeah.
 I can recognize that if I communicate well enough, my team becomes cohesive, therefore, my productivity
 is higher.
 The quality is higher.
 The care and concern is higher.
 And what a fantastic benefit, what if my just team morale is higher because of the cohesion
 I love it.
 That just really changes the way of looking at how important it is in your business.
 That there's no war going on.
 You're not shooting at somebody.
 You're, you know, making a widget and selling it.
 What are some of the communication struggles that you experienced in war zones and how did
 you overcome them?
 You know, well, there's language, right?
 It's interesting.
 I was working with, I was working with foreign entities and so, you know, it'd be very
 ethnocentric of me to expect the Afghans to learn to speak English.
 And so at one time, like I spoke, Poshdu, well enough that I could run a target and I didn't
 have to have a mentor with me and I learned Dari.
 And Dari and Poshdu, the two languages they speak in Afghanistan are Dari and Poshdu.
 And the two languages are very different.
 And so Dari is kind of like ancient Persian or Farsi, like what they speak in Iran.
 But it's a little bit different than that.
 And then Poshdu is more Poshdu as Poshdu.
 But, and so for me, you know, there's a language component that was there.
 And so I started learning the language.
 And even when I was in Iraq, I studied Arabic.
 And then I got to Afghanistan.
 And I started, you know, I started out in Kabul, it was my first place that I went.
 And they predominantly speak Dari.
 There.
 So I started learning Dari.
 And then I ended up down south, like I did the story I told you about.
 And I started learning Poshdu.
 Well, that's I'm learning the language of the area.
 But along with language, I was learning the culture because the two are almost anonymous.
 And so the more I learned about the language, now I'm winning over.
 I'm winning over the people that are there because it was very unusual for an American to start
 to learn the language of those guys.
 And I would ask them, I'd be like, you know, inevitably I would screw up the language when
 I was talking and they're like, you're saying that wrong.
 You're now interjecting the Dari into the Poshdu, which, you know, it happened all the time.
 And, but now we're creating a relationship because now I'm not some of unobtainable person
 that's living in an ivory tower that never makes mistakes.
 I'm just another human being that they see that I'm trying to be good too and write down to
 where like my guys all carried AK 47's, which is the rifle that they chose instead of the
 M16.
 I carried, I could have carried anything I wanted because of the unit I was in.
 I carried an AK 47.
 And I learned to be very efficient and very proficient with that rifle.
 So the guys knew they were like, "Jefs not asking us to do anything he's not willing to do
 himself."
 And so that comes down to that communication level.
 I was learning their language.
 I was learning, I would go and meet with the Mola that was there.
 The Mola is kind of like the preacher for the area.
 And I'd go and sit down with the Mola and I'd be like, "Tell me, teach me about Islam."
 And you know, and they're like, "More than happy to."
 You know, and I was never going to convert, I mean, I'm a Christian, but that's never going to
 convert.
 But I wanted to learn more about where these guys and to some extent, girls were coming from and
 about their culture and about them and take a serious interest in them as human beings.
 And that really is what helped me be as successful as I was in that unit.
 So good.
 Now, kind of transitioning this back to home, you recently put yourself through nursing school.
 What was the driver for that?
 What was, why did you go and do that?
 I think that's the way I'm taking tackle at 54.
 I think that was my wife, kick in me out of the house, you know.
 So I had, you know, so I was one of the original guys that started Black Rifle.
 And then I exited the company and sold everything back and I had a tourniquet company at the
 same time, which was rats that you mentioned before rapid application tourniquet system.
 It was one of my patents that I didn't invent to that product.
 I'm also all over the world.
 And I sold that company off because I'm a small business, kind of startup person.
 I really like developing products and stuff.
 But once a business becomes like a full-fledged business that's, you know, where you start
 getting a lot of people.
 I started losing some of the intimacy with folks.
 And I was kind of like, yeah, I like doing more of the product stuff.
 So I sold that, you know, sold that business off.
 And I was like, well, what am I going to do now?
 And you know, when I done a ton of medical stuff when I was in the military, I had retired from
 the military at this point.
 I done a bunch of military.
 I done a bunch of healthcare stuff, trauma stuff in the military.
 And I was like, and I had an interest in healthcare already.
 And so it was like, you know what, I can be.
 And because I'm in emergency preparedness was like, I'm interested in healthcare.
 And like I can be 90 and work as a nurse.
 And so because nursing is unbelievably broad.
 Like even when I started, I didn't realize how broad nursing is.
 And so it was like, you know, and it, and I'm blessed, right, because there's a nursing college,
 like literally seven minutes from my house.
 So I was like, you know, I told my wife, I was like, yeah, I'm thinking about going to nursing
 school.
 And she was like, good, because you need to get out of the house.
 And I was like, well, and you know, and I came back and I was like, wow, you know, it's
 going to take a lot of time.
 And she's like, you work quite 15 hours a day anyways.
 Next excuse.
 And I was like, well, it's, you know, I'm going to have to drive there from the house.
 And she's like, it's seven minutes away.
 Next to the little.
 And I was like, well, you know, it's going to cost some money.
 And she's like, the VA is going to pay for all that next excuse.
 And I was like, well, all right, I guess I've known in nursing school.
 I'm out of excuse.
 But it was a, it was phenomenal.
 Going back to learn for the sake of learning, especially in healthcare.
 It was tremendously cathartic.
 It really activated parts of my brain that hadn't been in a while.
 It was, I needed a break from being an entrepreneur as much as you could get that.
 You know, somebody just handing me a syllabus and saying, learn these things.
 It was like, this is easy.
 You know, and, but nursing school was was really challenging.
 And, you know, mentally.
 And, and then really, I wanted to move more into the aspect of like giving back.
 So, and that ultimately is what led to re-wilding because, you know, nursing school, if there's
 any nurses that are listening to this, there's kind of a joke inside the world of nursing
 that the exams are trick questions followed by trick answers.
 And it's, you know, so it's pretty, it's pretty squirrely.
 The exams aren't easy.
 And so I had just finished and had just graduated when my buddy Hugh, who we run the re-wilding
 with Mustang medicine, we run that together.
 And he, he was like, hey, I'm thinking about starting up a retreat.
 You want to help.
 Well, then what that allowed me to do is because I realized that I had matched the ways that
 I used to, like, mentally get ready for assault.
 I started, you know, because you fall back to your level of training, right?
 You don't rise the occasion.
 You fall back to how much work you've done.
 Well, I had fallen back.
 So the same little ritual that I'd done before I'd go on assaults.
 I had started doing prior to these squirrely nursing exams.
 And so he was like, I want you to teach about, you know, X, Y and Z, you know, and
 a sort of like, yeah, because I wanted to go back and self-autied.
 Why I was able to last as long as I did in the CT unit because it was a very stressful,
 very, very stressful.
 And so that allowed me to go back, you know, and I was like, oh, I'm doing the same thing that
 I used to do before assaults.
 And then because I was fresh from nursing school and I understood the physiology and the
 psychology that was behind it.
 So I started peeling the onion and dissecting that and going, oh, here's what I did.
 And that actually is one of the tools that we teach at the re-wilding.
 And so, but nursing was just, for me, it was like one, you know, as a emergency preparedness,
 I can be old and still work.
 But two, I wanted to, it was interesting to me.
 And then three, it was a way that, you know, I could, I could give back to the, you know,
 give back to the community.
 And so, yeah, and it's, it's, I'm working on my advanced degree right now so that I'll continue
 to push that forward and integrate that more with, with, you know, with the stuff we're
 doing with re-wilding.
 It's been, it's been a super cool journey so far.
 Yeah.
 I love it.
 No, so you brought up something I do have to ask you because you've gotten from something
 that very few people on the planet can even understand, you know, being in the special forces
 and doing what you do.
 It is incredible pressure.
 It's incredible stress.
 It's, it's very demanding.
 But you've also got into entrepreneurship, which I love, Ziggs said, back in the day, entrepreneurs
 are the only people who can understand what it's like to go from sheer exhilaration to sheer
 tear and back in the same 24 hours, right?
 Yeah.
 It is a very high pressure stress demanding job and it's something that, you know, some people
 are made for it.
 I've run businesses for many, many years.
 I have multiple businesses now.
 But it's stress.
 I mean, it's, you know, it's not special forces.
 So, man, you know, do what this for 30 plus years.
 There's days I like to not be a stress out.
 You know, there's days I look forward to just a slow day.
 How did you manage all of the things that you experience?
 You just pointed that you were kind of peel back that onion and the special forces.
 How did you manage the demand and the stress and how does that apply to what you do now?
 So first and foremost is blessed with a wonderful wife.
 So my family, my support network is fantastic.
 My, you know, my wife is a rock of support.
 She is, I mean, come hell or high water.
 She's there as a support and I'm lucky enough.
 I married a gal that, you know, I'm in love with.
 She's also, she's, she's my smarter half by far, but she's also up here.
 And so like I can go to her and say, what do you think about this?
 And, you know, and she'll give me honest feedback where she's like, I think you're nuts.
 I wouldn't do that or, you know, or I think that's a good idea.
 The, you know, maybe you should think that out or she'll be the first one.
 I'll read some headlines and I'll say, did you know what happened?
 She'll go, send me that article and I'll send it to her and she'll go, you didn't read
 the whole article because down at the bottom, this is what it's saying or what you're interpreting
 is not what you know and I'm like, dang it.
 She got me again, you know, so I'm incredibly blessed.
 So the best kind of spouse you could possibly have right there.
 The one who covers your weaknesses, it would covers my, absolutely.
 So, you know, first and foremost, it's that.
 And then second, I've always been interested in the psychology of, you know, humans and stress.
 And what that and what that means because, you know, taking the military slant, if you
 understand what your body does under stress, then you can incorporate that so that you
 become a better soldier, shooter, whatever that is.
 And so the technique of shooting that I teach, I teach because that's what your body does
 under stress versus someone, I don't, I don't teach the most accurate way to shoot like
 an Olympic shooter or something like that.
 I teach the most sustainable way to shoot under stress.
 And so, you know, in its combat versus competition and all that ongoing argument.
 But I do it because I, I, for decades now dug into what the human brain is doing under stress
 so that, so that you can incorporate that in your, you know, in your tactics and techniques.
 But the interesting thing is, is once you understand that, then all of a sudden, it's
 calming because it's like, oh, okay, I understand what my body's doing.
 And so it's that it's that whole anxiety because stress is kind of anxiety, right?
 It's that whole reversal of like, now I can get curious is to why my body's doing that versus
 being stressed out because my body's doing something that it doesn't do.
 So the example I like to tell people is like, how many people have driven on ice?
 Well, when you drive on ice and you finally get off the ground pavement and you, and you,
 one, you go, you start breathing again and then you kind of peel your fingers off the
 steering wheel and I ask people.
 I'm like, does holding your breath help you be a better driver?
 No, does putting a death group on the steering wheel make you a better driver?
 No.
 But these are things that we can then realize and go, oh, I am doing things because some
 aspect of my brain, you know, without getting deep into the physiology is causing this
 stress response where my body's trying to equalize itself out.
 And so that really for me is understanding that and learning that.
 I don't profess to say that I fully understand because nobody does.
 This is like really new and updating all the time and then it's like, okay, how do I
 then take these things and turn them into lessons and then bring in tools that help me
 bring the stress level down.
 So when I'm, when I'm in those instances and then what are some, and then taking that
 step further just like how you warm up before you go to the gym and exercise?
 So you don't pull a hammy while you're doing windsprints and I should have warmed up.
 We should warm, I'm a big believer and you warm up your brain, you warm up your nervous system
 before you get into something that may be as stressful event.
 So just like, you know, we're creatures of habit before I came on this show.
 I was like, okay, I need to make sure that both hemispheres are balanced out and are
 firing and also leaders and I go through my quick little rich world that I do and I'm like, okay,
 I should be good to go.
 I think I'm balanced out and I'm ready to jump in and kind of impromptu answer a bunch of questions
 because it keeps that stress level and the butterflies it bay.
 Yeah, gosh, that's so good.
 That is so good.
 It's so funny.
 Have you ever been looking for a street that you're supposed to turn on and you turn down the
 radio because you can't find a street?
 Absolutely.
 You're right.
 What in the world does turn?
 How does turning down the street affect my vision?
 It's hilarious.
 Are turning on the radio, affect my vision?
 Dude, there's so much we could talk about.
 You're going to be at the next level of leadership live events.
 Maybe we can even dive into the stress piece more because I would love to dig into how
 you prepare yourself and the things.
 You know, I think we all have a tiny thing of like, oh, well, here this is what's coming,
 but I sure would love to know from the aspect of somebody who did what you've done.
 How did you learn?
 How did you discover the way that your body responds and acts on that?
 Maybe we can get more into that kind of stuff when we get into the event.
 One last question for you.
 If you could go back in time to a young Jeff, what is the one thing you would want to
 tell him?
 Man, that's, you just gave me goosebumps.
 You know, what I would tell a young Jeff would be, don't wait.
 Don't wait.
 I'm a big believer.
 I'm a voracious reader now.
 I've got young kids, so I'm a big believer in set the example.
 I think one of the big things you can do for your kids is let them see you reading to
 influence them to read and that goes, there's a whole psychology behind reading and activating
 serotonin because you're eye movement and stuff like that.
 It's fascinating, but but also continuing to learn.
 You know, I would say don't wait.
 Figure out, figure out where you want to go and then ask yourself, what am I doing today?
 That's going to help me get there.
 And if I want to get together and that will probably change a little bit over life, Jeff at
 50 is different than Jeff was at 30 because I'm married now and I've got kids and life
 changes with kids and stuff and that's okay.
 It actually helps sharpen that focus.
 But if you ask yourself, what am I doing today that's going to help me get to where I'm going,
 either in business or your personal life, I'm talking specifically about your heart,
 what's important to your heart and what are you doing today to help you get closer to
 where your heart wants to be in your life?
 That's what I tell young Jeff is, don't wait.
 Figure out, figure out, ask yourself, what is deeply important to you?
 I think that's one of the questions you guys ask is what is deeply important to you?
 And then the follow-up to that is, what are you doing to get you closer to what is really
 meaningful to you?
 And it's amazing because that younger Jeff I'd be like, dude, if you do that, life will
 be so much easier and so much more joyful than the twists and turns and disappointments.
 I mean, I'll be the first to admit, I have not had a term life.
 I've been kicked in the guts so many times that I can.
 I mean, there's been times I was literally standing on the side of a mountain, shaking my fist at
 heaven saying, why did you do this to me?
 Because of disappointments that have come up.
 But now looking back, it's just like, "Gee many Christmas, God had a plan and you know,
 I'm where I am now because of the disappointments that I had.
 But it would have been really nice if I had a lot clearer and avoided as many of those disappointments as I had.
 That's what I'd tell a young Jeff.
 And the great thing is that you are utilizing all of those disappointments to be a better version of
 yourself, better husband, better father, and obviously better leader as well.
 So, dude, thank you so much for coming on the show.
 It was good having you, aren't?
 Well, thank you so much.
 We could have gone for hours.
 There's so many things.
 I feel like we barely scratched the surface and at the same time, I feel like this was such
 good information. So, so good to have you on and look forward to having you here in a few months.
 Awesome.
 So, really looking forward to it.
 Yes, same here.
 Well, folks, if you want to hear, if you want to learn more from Jeff, he is speaking on our upcoming
 next-level leadership live event that is April 17th through the 19th.
 We're going to be going deeper into leadership stress management.
 Resiliency is a high-achieving leader currently right now.
 Tickets are $500 off right now, but that's for a limited time.
 And I imagine you may have a few other exciting more stories that you're going to tell and share while
 we're there.
 I'm sure we're going to get some good stuff out of you.
 So, you do not want to miss this.
 Go to crissacurdo.com/avents and get your tickets today.
 That's crissacurdo.com/avents.
 But folks, that's all the time that we have for today.
 I really hope this information was helpful for you.
 I hope this was we reached an area that you would either love to gain more information on or
 gain more help.
 Whatever it is, as Jeff said, don't wait.
 Don't wait.
 It doesn't matter if you're 23 or for your 53.
 Don't wait.
 If there's something you need to do right now, get more information, do something about it.
 Just be curious and learn about it.
 Don't wait.
 But we would also love to hear from you.
 We would love to hear your stories, your insights, whatever it is, your comments.
 So feel free to share those who have podcasting and personal thoughts.
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]