 On today's episode we are talking about extending the benefit of the doubt to people, which
 is assuming the best in people like, you know, when your friend is late for lunch and instead
 of, you know, going all rage mode in your head you start thinking like, hey, traffic must
 be insane today.
 How do we get there?
 Why is it important?
 All of that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal of Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover
 that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today we are talking about extending the benefit of the doubt to people.
 Why we should do that, what that kind of looks like, why it's important, all that kind
 of fun stuff.
 The truth is if we assume the worst in people all the time, we'd be living in a constant
 state of frustration and cynicism.
 I mean, there's just no doubt about it, right?
 If we just always assumed the worst, the negativity in our brain would just continue to
 control us.
 There's a lot of people who actually do spend a lot of time thinking the worst about other people.
 Now I will say that I love, I believe, was Jim Collins who gave the his definition of what
 a cynic is and a cynic is a person who has a lot of hope that's been let down to many times.
 They're no longer hopeful.
 They're no longer trusting.
 They've been disappointed so many times.
 They used to have a lot of hope and now they just are cynical about everything.
 I think we all can say that we've got a level of cynicism in our lives.
 Unfortunately, there's some folks that have a heck of a lot of cynicism.
 If we just always are assuming the worst in people, then what is that going to do to you?
 As we go through this process, there's probably a lot of folks out there going, man, you're
 going to have to convince me to start thinking better about other people or given them the benefit
 of the doubt.
 I can hear it right now and I get it.
 I understand, I'm with you.
 I know where you're coming from.
 So let me start by not discussing them.
 There's no doubt.
 If you're following this show, then there is no doubt that you have at least a decent understanding
 of what holds you back emotionally.
 You have at least a decent understanding that negative thoughts can control you.
 They can control your decision making process.
 They control your feelings.
 They can control how you treat other people.
 So as we talk about this subject of assuming the best in others, believe it or not, it's
 a thousand times more about us, you, the individual than it is the person that you're thinking
 the best of.
 So when you are constantly thinking negative about others, you're constantly responding chemically
 inside of your body in a way that destroys you.
 When you have a lot of negativity, you have a lot of cortisol that is dumping into your stomach.
 When you have a lot of cortisol in your stomach, it is destroying a lot of your good bacteria.
 It's destroying a lot of your happy hormones.
 The serotonin that ends up in your brain, 80 to 90 percent of that comes from your stomach.
 And so when you are battling the good stuff that makes you happier or helps you to choose
 to be happier, helps you to have your thoughts, when you're battling that with a bunch
 of negativity, then it's affecting you in a way that is causing you to think differently.
 It's affecting you in a way that's causing you to feel differently.
 So when we talk about this subject, this is way more about you than it is than it is.
 It's important to understand when we immediately go to a negative thought about somebody,
 we're already.
 And you may be absolutely correct.
 You may be absolutely right about the person.
 It's funny on the package we talked about the person that shows up like coming in and it's
 the umpteenth time they've shown up late to lunch.
 You're frustrated, right?
 You know that this is a person who's probably chosen not to leave on time to get there.
 But instead of sitting there and thinking, "Cruz, why can't this person just treat me with
 some respect and some dignity and show up on time?
 What if you did start to think in a positive way?
 You know what?
 Maybe traffic is just horrible.
 Here's the thing.
 When they get there, you may still find out that they had no good reason to be late or they
 will use a common excuse that they probably use every time that they are late.
 But here's what happens inside of you.
 When you assume maybe I'm wrong.
 Maybe everything is, you know, maybe they're not treating me with disrespect.
 Maybe there is something wrong that happened.
 Maybe they weren't able to get off a call with a client or whatever it is, then you start to
 actually change the way you feel about you inside.
 You're taking a positive tone, a positive stance.
 And as you do that, then you don't dump a bunch of negative chemicals into your body or
 force a bunch of cortisol into your stomach.
 You don't start destroying serotonin and dopamine.
 Instead you choose a positive outlook which changes your current posture, your emotional
 posture.
 Obviously, we've talked about the physical benefits.
 But then what do we start doing?
 We know that if we create any habit and the concept of a habit being done in 21 days, that's
 been decently blown out of the water, it takes about 90 days to create a habit.
 But not saying that you're assuming the worst in people, every single day, maybe you are.
 When we start to do this, we start to create a force of habit.
 If we can think positively, if we can assume that somebody is not being the way that
 we think that they are, not being the way that we have experienced them in the past.
 But instead of assume positive aspects about them, then it changes how we approach the subject
 when we find out that they are doing something wrong.
 Now, what that being said, there's a lot of folks, especially a lot of cynics out there.
 Now, we'll tell you, I've been cynical in my life.
 There are times that I am cynical now, but I would never consider myself at this stage
 of my life to be a cynic.
 I think when I was in my early teens, late 20s, with everything that I had experienced up to that
 point, and through that era, I became incredibly cynical.
 I got so sick and tired of being taken advantage of by people, being hurt by people, and
 praise God that he allowed me to understand that I allowed it.
 I could have done something differently.
 I could have changed the people that I was around and the people that I accepted into my life,
 I could change those things.
 That began a path for me to go back to loving people, caring for people, being very altruistic,
 trying to help develop teach, guide, direct, but it also allowed me to have a healthy boundary
 with those that showed up, that looked a lot like the people in the past that I had been hurt
 by, or people that had taken advantage of me.
 It allowed me to recognize I'm the one allowing it to happen if I don't have quality healthy
 boundaries.
 Didn't have to have those health boundaries with everybody.
 Just those folks that can really see inside of you and see this is somebody that I could
 take advantage of.
 I experienced those folks to this day.
 I still experienced that.
 The difference is that I take more of a stance of what we're talking about today.
 I either assume the best or I recognize that a person is a specific way and I'm not surprised
 by it.
 I just don't allow it to affect me the way that I did when I was younger.
 So the benefits show out way the being right.
 If you're right, that somebody is treating you with disrespect, choosing not to leave on time
 to get to your lunch, choosing to not care about you in specific ways, whatever it is,
 if you're right and you're negative, then you're just right and negative.
 You're affecting yourself in a negative way.
 There's an old saying that I think is just so powerful if you get it.
 Yourness is like taking a cyanide pill, hoping that the other person dies.
 That's what bitterness is.
 So continue that thought in cynicism.
 Continue that thought in if you're constantly thinking the worst in people, then you are becoming
 bitter.
 You are becoming poisoned inside at the same time you're hoping that this other person feels
 the effects of it experiences it.
 I don't know.
 Realizes that they're treating you this way.
 Does it ever happen?
 No.
 Of course.
 Well, it's a rarity.
 If the person does praise God, there's somebody who's moving in the right direction.
 What's the point I'm making?
 When you immediately go into thinking the worst of others, you immediately begin affecting you.
 You immediately become unhealthy.
 You immediately start to become toxic.
 So if we just stop right there, the show's over.
 This is I'm done.
 Hey, let's wrap it up.
 Let's move on.
 And all you got was that.
 That would change you.
 It could change your health.
 It could change your happiness.
 It could change your decision making processes.
 It could change your surface level responses.
 It could change how you respond to your root system.
 It could change so very much.
 So that's why I wanted to start with talking about us as individuals.
 Instead of me focusing on whether or not I'm right about somebody who's disrespectful.
 But if I just focused on taking care of me in that moment, I'm not talking about being selfish
 in self-centered.
 That's not what I'm saying.
 I'm the only important one.
 What I'm saying is what if I chose a different thought process?
 If I chose to assume the best or give the benefit of the doubt, then that allows me to shift
 my mind into a different place.
 I can have a considerably different conversation in my head the whole time.
 Now I'm going to give you an example of something an interview I saw a long time ago.
 It was Tom Cruise and Emily Blunt.
 They were in a movie.
 I can't remember the name of it.
 The last day, I don't know, something.
 I can't remember what it is.
 The edge of tomorrow, something like that.
 And apparently Tom now listen.
 I enjoy Tom Cruise movies.
 I really would love to give him a next level of life.
 So if that explains to you my thoughts on him and his acting and his personal life, I wish
 you would come third.
 That would be great.
 He's up and there's one thing that you cannot deny about Tom Cruise and that's his what appears
 to be an incredibly long suffering attitude towards positivity.
 And apparently he's hanging from this harness, which is if you can imagine, I don't want
 your brains to go there too much, but it's affecting the most important parts region.
 And Emily Blunt says, "Oh my gosh, I'm hanging out there for the longest time and I can't
 get the, they can't start the recording, I guess, because something's not ready."
 And Emily just looks up and goes, "Tom, I am so sorry.
 He goes, "It's fine.
 It's okay."
 And she goes, "Come on, Tom."
 She goes, "It's okay."
 And he goes, "It's all going to be okay."
 And she goes, "Tom, this sucks."
 And here is this eternal positive attitude, no matter what his, the rest of his life is
 like.
 And he looks at it and he goes, "It's challenging."
 And she just laughed.
 And I got to tell you, I was super impressed.
 Please do not get me wrong.
 I do not, in any way, shape or form, look up or have Tom Cruise on a pedestal or anybody in Hollywood
 or anybody for that matter except for Yeshua.
 He's the only one who belongs on a pedestal.
 But I always impressed in how people can control their minds in a good way to make right
 decisions.
 Instead of losing his ever-loving mind in that moment, which a lot of guys probably would
 have freaked out.
 A lot of guys would have started yelling, "Hey, I'm in pain in a very important spot.
 Could you please just start rolling the cameras?"
 He continued to just think through, "Stay positive."
 Yes, this does suck.
 But even he wouldn't acknowledge that it sucked.
 He said it was challenging.
 Yes, this is a challenge for me to overcome.
 So where was his mindset in that place?
 How do I overcome this challenge?
 So not to say that he is ever your example for anything in life.
 What I am saying is that thought process is when you're in a struggle place of thinking
 something positive about somebody else, what if you looked at it as a challenge for you?
 It's a challenge for me to assume the best.
 That's a challenge for me to just assume good intent.
 It's a challenge, but I'm going to tackle it.
 I'm going to try and overcome it.
 So if we can do that, it changes us.
 It changes our thought processes, it changes our emotions, it changes our health.
 Think about this.
 What about if we're giving the benefit of the doubt in relationships?
 What does it look like to give the benefit of the doubt to your family?
 What does it look like to build trust?
 What if somebody, you know, we assume the worst thing is, is that we've not done a good
 job listening?
 What if they don't feel heard?
 What if we're not building connections, but instead destroying relationships because we're
 choosing to assume the worst in this person?
 Now, again, I get it.
 Many of you have plenty of family members out there that you have a good reason.
 You've experienced a lot of junk in your life and it gives you a good reason to not trust.
 But what if, and again, by doing so, I don't have to go through all the negativity, but it affects
 you in a negative way.
 But what if we took a different tact?
 What if instead of assuming the worst, we did everything we could to gain quality perspective?
 What if we just asked questions?
 What if we tried to discover why they're responding the way they are?
 They're feeling the way that they are?
 What if we spent time trying to build a better version of trust?
 What if we tried to understand what they're going through?
 I'm not pleased to hear me justifying somebody's bad actions.
 But I'm also not going to justify our bad actions if we think the worst, right?
 What would it be like for us to spend time understanding what somebody else is going through?
 How would that benefit us?
 How would it benefit our family?
 What if my wife is having a bad day in, I don't know what's going on, but she responds to me,
 but harshly, I don't know.
 I get a disrespectful response.
 But what if I just respond in a very harsh way?
 If I don't take into consideration that perhaps she's struggling with something that she's
 going through something that maybe something bad has happened or she experienced a bad conversation
 and was somebody or she experienced another family member not being so great to her, then what I end up
 doing is assuming the worst.
 This is how my wife is right now.
 She is just whatever.
 She's being harsh, she's being rude.
 If I don't stop and go, hey, what's going on?
 What do you experience?
 What's happened today?
 What happened right before this conversation?
 If I don't spend time gaining quality perspective and digging into discover what she's really
 experiencing, then not only am I affecting me in a negative way, but it's very possible that
 I will compound this situation by responding in like kind.
 If I do the same thing that I'm experiencing, then I can only expect for it to continue
 to grow and get worse.
 That's not going to build trust.
 It's not going to help any situations, but I can tell you what will.
 If I will spend time trying to gain quality perspective, then I may just help the other person,
 spouse, kid, parent, brother, sister, whatever it is, I may just help them to understand that
 their response wasn't that great in the first place.
 They may recognize their choice in change.
 It's highly probable.
 There's also the opposite, which is that some people may just choose to be stuck in a victim
 state and continue to pound things home.
 So if they do, what do you do?
 Walk away.
 Get away from it.
 Step away from it.
 Do whatever it takes to remove yourself from that situation so that you can focus on you.
 Right.
 Now, that's hopefully that's the worst case scenario.
 Hopefully if we spend time focused on relationships, then we're benefiting our spouse, our parents,
 our whoever, the relationship with the person who's struggling in the moment.
 But if it causes you to struggle, let me rephrase that.
 If you choose to struggle because they are struggling, then what does that say about you?
 It's the same exact thing when it comes to business, assuming the worst in people does not
 feel dressed.
 People don't feel honored or respected.
 And again, there's many of you out there saying, well, why they shouldn't.
 The way that they're responding is not good.
 It's not quality.
 Okay.
 But how are you responding?
 If you want people to trust you, help them to see that you can take the high road at a time
 that they are struggling.
 You might be blown away at the trust and vulnerability you can get from somebody who experiences
 you as being a great person in that timeframe.
 If you want respect, if you want to feel honored, if you want to have strong relationships
 with your team members, assume the best.
 I assume that most of us have had that leader at some point in their lives who always assumed the
 worst.
 I had a leader long time ago who would just come in yelling, yelling with assumptions of things
 that weren't accurate.
 And what didn't have anything to do with me or the people he was yelling at.
 But he assumed something happened.
 And so he would just come in yelling, come in just like a tornado and yelling out accusations,
 talking about how angry he was and how frustrated and all this kind of stuff.
 And unfortunately, most people wouldn't push back if it was something that I had done wrong.
 I had no problem taking responsibility.
 But if I hadn't, then I would say, do you want to ask any questions?
 Which would really in the beginning make him even more upset?
 And he would press in hard.
 And I'm like, if you just want to ask a question, I would let you know, I had nothing to do
 with that.
 I don't know what you're talking about.
 That's not me.
 Yadiyada Yada.
 After a couple of times of saying, do you want to ask any questions?
 You could see him settle down and recognize he's flying off the handle on something and
 he doesn't have accurate information.
 I think we've all experienced that.
 So here's my question for you.
 That person.
 Are you the person who assumes the worst comes in ripping people's heads off, yelling in
 screaming, you know, struggling my crazy, assuming things and then implying that people
 have done things that are wrong.
 And then walking out without finding out the truth about it or when you do find out the truth,
 how do you respond?
 How do you act?
 In business that is only going to cause you to lose trust, to lose loyalty, to lose respect,
 to lose honor.
 If, on the other hand, you spend time assuming the best in people, having perspective
 gathering conversations.
 What does that look like?
 Instead of coming in like a tornado, you ask a lot of questions.
 Hey, guys, help me to understand this.
 Here's something that just happened.
 I need to understand this and this and this.
 What about this?
 Did we do anything about this?
 How we tried to solve anything?
 Is it even you?
 Has anybody in here a part of that?
 If you came in and assumed the best of people, then what you might discover is that people
 can trust you more.
 Why?
 Because they can anticipate the way that you're going to handle a bad situation.
 On top of that, it keeps it more positive.
 Our process at work is we've had so many team members over the years that are afraid to
 fail.
 Why are you afraid?
 Like, wow, I don't want to disappoint you or get you mad.
 I said, have you ever seen that?
 Well, no.
 Okay.
 Well, how do we handle problems?
 Well, you always ask the same questions.
 What happened?
 How did it happen?
 Why did it happen?
 What are we going to do about it?
 How are we going to make sure it never happens again?
 Then what happens after that?
 Nothing.
 We just get back to work.
 Great.
 Then don't fear having your head ripped off.
 That allows a team member to be positive.
 That allows a team member to recognize grace.
 That allows a team member to recognize kindness and goodness and good will.
 Those are the values that your team members, your family members, whoever your friends will
 experience if you assume the best.
 So let's talk about some of the challenges in extending the benefit of the doubt to others.
 Like it is very probable that many of you, I know I have experienced this incredible not
 the time to my life.
 That trust has been broken by somebody that you're now considering do I think the best
 of them.
 Do I assume the best of them?
 Do I assume that the worst isn't at hand?
 So your root system will probably have an impact on how you respond.
 If you are used to people who are not honorable, that are disrespectful, that don't keep their
 promises, that might be controlling might be manipulative, then I can tell you this is probably
 going to be incredibly difficult for you to do.
 This will probably be very tough for you to look at somebody and assume the best.
 Well, no duh, Chris, you just laid out all the reasons not to.
 Yep, I get it.
 But here's what I need you to think about.
 Once again, let's go back to that.
 How does it affect you?
 How does it affect you when all you do is focus on the negativity?
 But what they're doing is negative.
 Yep, I get it.
 But how are you going to choose to handle it?
 So let's talk about the root system.
 What you've come out of, what you've experienced can cause you to have what we call the surface
 level of responses.
 These responses that you have because it's the only way you know how to respond to a given
 situation.
 It may not be a great response.
 It's most likely a negative response.
 It could be a response of fear of failure.
 It could be a response of protecting yourself.
 It could be control.
 It could be submissiveness.
 It could be one of hundreds of different responses.
 Here's a deal.
 When you tend to respond that way, you continue to make bad decisions for you.
 So if you go into a situation knowing that somebody has broken trust before and they have
 probably doing it again right now, then what's going to happen most likely is your choice
 and how you respond to that situation is not going to be positive.
 It's definitely not going to be healthy for you.
 It's definitely not going to be healthy for the other person.
 It's not going to put in healthy boundaries.
 It's not going to create the opportunity for somebody to take responsibility.
 Instead what's going to happen is you're going to choose the toxic route of bad decision-making.
 Why?
 Because you've experienced it so many times in the past.
 So let me again refer you to the first part of the has.
 How do we keep you healthy in these situations?
 Yes, somebody's broken trust.
 Yes, you're expecting that they're going to do it again.
 But instead of just assuming the worst.
 What if you assumed this might be the time that they change and you did that for the next
 400 times?
 That sounds virtually impossible.
 But I can tell you I have been pleasantly surprised in the past when I don't assume the
 worst about somebody.
 Instead, I respond as if they had the opportunity to do good stuff or maybe they will at some
 point.
 And when I don't treat them like they are somebody who just breaks trust or continues to
 do make bad decisions about choices, then an amazing thing happens.
 Sometimes they're allowing themselves to be vulnerable in those moments.
 Sometimes they see my response and go, "Oh, Cread.
 He's not super surprised.
 He's not being rude.
 He's not being whatever.
 Cread.
 I really did make a bad decision here.
 I should go ahead and take responsibility.
 No.
 You can't count on that happening all the time.
 But what are your options?
 If you know somebody has broken trust before.
 You could think negatively.
 You could think positively.
 It's as basic as that, folks.
 You could also set healthy boundaries and remove yourself from situations where they're
 going to break your trust in the future.
 I highly suggest that.
 Unless you're trying to create or build a relationship, I highly suggest you put that in.
 Well, what if it's my leader?
 Well, then the healthy boundary for you is going to be perspective gathering.
 Hey, can you help me to understand why this happened?
 Can you help me to understand what you want me to do in this situation?
 Can you guide and direct me on how I should process this?
 If somebody's paying you and they're the ones that are struggling like crazy, well, then you
 either got to find a better way of handling the situation for yourself and a healthy way or choose
 to leave.
 Right?
 If you have a leader, you can push back on.
 Great.
 We happen to be leaders.
 We tell our people, push back.
 Oh, I see.
 Questions, thoughts, comments, push back?
 Because I'm looking for somebody to push back and go, I completely disagree with this.
 I don't agree with this.
 I think you're wrong.
 I think whatever.
 I will help me if I'm not struggling like so many people do.
 If I can hear a quality push back and speak into it, then I might be able to educate somebody
 else or I might even be able to educate myself.
 So it's something that's important for you to think about.
 If it's in a business situation and your leaders, the one who has broken trust many times
 in the past.
 Now, how do we look at the different personality styles?
 And how they tend to respond to somebody breaking trust or somebody breaking promises.
 It's not hard if you've been following us for any period of time.
 You know what your high D is going to respond to.
 They're probably going to be really frustrated, short tempered.
 They will probably call the person out.
 The high I is going to try and treat it with as much personal interaction as possible.
 Probably switch to pointing out, hey, you know, you did do this.
 This is where we are.
 And that's probably how the high I is going to respond.
 The high S is going to avoid the conflict as much as they possibly can.
 And it's probably going to be the 40th time that the person breaks trust that the high S is
 going to respond to it.
 And then even at that point, it's still going to be decently on the conflict free side or
 it's going to be the exact opposite.
 Now, what we talk about with high S is, if you push them into the corner too many times,
 then eventually they respond harsh.
 They come back after so many times being backed into a corner, they will come out like a
 rolling line.
 So it's very possible that they will respond that way as well.
 High C is just going to probably, you know, they will let you know what you've done.
 Very detailed.
 Here's the thing that you've done.
 I don't like it.
 And then they will probably remove themselves from the situation very quickly.
 So as you look at the different personality styles, that's usually how they would respond.
 If it's going to be responding in a negative mindset.
 So again, an option is always trying to understand what the other person is going through.
 Try to help them to explain their decisions.
 Your perspective gathering questions if they are not leading, if they are not harsh, if they're
 not sarcastic, cynical.
 If you are truly being curious, what you may do is you may help them to be able to explain
 themselves, which can ultimately change the whole situation and allow you both to move on
 and positive light.
 Many people today aren't living well because they're stuck in painful patterns of anxiety,
 fear, negative self-talk and other struggles that keep happening.
 That maybe you and you wish it would stop.
 You may lash out of people, you may shut down conversations, you may feel like you always
 have to defend yourself and just not feel good enough.
 You may even be losing trust in yourself.
 Seeking counseling advice from friends or tons of self-help books aren't helping, and not
 much about you is changing for the better.
 The thing is, we're blind to what's causing these patterns and struggles and that's why we
 carry them with us wherever we go.
 But when we get clarity on the why, we grow awareness of our emotions and thinking, that's
 when great change happens.
 And that is why we created next level life.
 If you feel stuck in patterns, you can't change.
 Go to crislacrittle.com/nextlevellife.
 That's crislacrittle.com/nextlevellife.
 So, practical ways you can apply this principle.
 First thing is check you first.
 Always always check you.
 What if you're the one who's struggling with it?
 What if you're the one who's breaking the trust of other people?
 What if you're the one who shows up late for the umpteenth time?
 What if you're the one who has lame excuses and is self-protective and is defensive?
 Well, check you.
 What are you going to do about you?
 What if you're the one who's doing this?
 How are you going to stop you in the moment and go, I must take responsibility?
 Well, the other person has responsibility too.
 Maybe.
 But you can only control you.
 You can't control that other person.
 So check you first.
 Also, know your personality style tendencies.
 If you're somebody who tends to become a victim very quickly when somebody approaches you or
 points out the fact that you are late again for lunch, then understand how you respond.
 Understand your personality style and what your tendency is.
 Are you going to fight back?
 Are you going to become a victim?
 Are you going to blame shift and dump it all on them?
 What is the thing that you tend to experience?
 On the same token, recognize the other person's tendencies and watch it like a movie.
 You know it's coming that will help you to stay in a more positive light.
 Another thing you can do is stop assuming.
 Don't assume.
 Don't assume, don't assume, don't assume.
 Stop assuming.
 Be curious.
 Change assumption with curiosity.
 Hey, I'd like to find out the answer to this.
 I'd like to understand gain quality perspective and that will help you to understand what's
 going on.
 Assume and you've already got the answer in your head.
 What if you find out you're wrong?
 It's like the yelling boss who comes into the office or cubicle area or whatever.
 Yelling and screaming and all these assumptions.
 Only to find out that they're wrong.
 If you stop assuming things before you approach a situation, then you can actually gain quality
 perspective.
 Another thing you can do again is consider what the other person may be going through.
 What are the experiencing today?
 Are they experiencing something difficult this week?
 This month, I can tell you over the last year plus it's been some of the most stressful
 time in my life, not the worst times in my life, just a little hot stress and a lot of stuff
 going on.
 Sometimes that's affected decisions that I've made.
 Sometimes I've had to make a decision that I have to just stop doing something and focus
 on resting or shut certain things down so I could focus on the most important things.
 That's why my brain works.
 If in that moment, somebody is going man, you haven't responded to my question about going for
 a bike ride out.
 That's just a lame.
 You have a response to that.
 Why not?
 Well, then I have to respond to take responsibility and say, I'm so sorry.
 Right now I am in a lot of stress and a lot of stuff going on.
 I'm slowing down on the activities that I'm doing so I can focus on the most important thing.
 If somebody can understand what somebody else is going through like that, if I said that to somebody,
 the people around me would be like, oh, totally do.
 I get it.
 No problem.
 Sorry for bothering you.
 Is there any way I can help?
 They would understand that immediately.
 Well, a good number of people would consider that and think, okay, what can I do or, hey,
 I can play land.
 What if you do the same thing?
 Find out what somebody is experiencing.
 Find out what somebody is going through.
 Some people will tell you, right up front, other people will hold on to it.
 Be curious and again, don't dive into somebody too much personal stuff that somebody doesn't want
 to be vulnerable about.
 But consider that they may be going through something that you don't understand.
 All right, I'll never forget.
 I was moving into a new house 20, almost 25 years ago, 24 years ago.
 It was on Thanksgiving day.
 So no food, no nothing.
 And we went to the only place open was an eye hop.
 If you're a fan of that, okay, more power to you.
 It's not the place that I would normally go for breakfast.
 I'm not a huge film me up with sugar type of person.
 But it was open.
 As we walked in the door, the mood was just low.
 Nobody was looking at anybody.
 Nobody was talking.
 It was very quiet.
 Our waitress did not look at us.
 She just came by, put that she wasn't rude.
 She just, you could tell the last place she wanted to be was working breakfast on Thanksgiving
 day.
 And as she came along and I started just looking through the room and paying attention, it was
 just a handful of people, maybe 10, 12 people in there.
 And I recognize she's got to be feeling terrible.
 She would so much rather be home with her family than being here.
 And so she came by the table.
 And this is my fault.
 I don't have food.
 I don't have stuff.
 I don't have, this is the day I'm moving in.
 And it's my choice, right?
 So here I am.
 This is the situation I'm in.
 I take responsibility.
 So I look up out and I say, hey, thank you so much for spending your Thanksgiving serving
 us.
 And her eyes came up and they were huge.
 And she said, nobody has said that.
 Thank you so much.
 And then I watched her bounce from table to table to table with this great attitude.
 Can I get you some coffee, huh?
 Can I get you some of those?
 Are you doing all right over here?
 And her whole attitude changed.
 Everything.
 She was so happy.
 She was so on fire at that point.
 Now she probably still didn't want to work there, but her whole demeanor changed because somebody
 appreciated and considered what she was going through.
 It changed the way she operated.
 All I'm suggesting is what if we do the same?
 Another thing you can do.
 Don't let yourself be walked all over, right?
 Don't let yourself be a dormant to somebody's bad situation.
 That healthy boundaries apply them when you discover that there really is a problem that
 there's something going on.
 Set the healthy boundaries.
 You don't have to stay and participate in somebody's terrible day if they want to stay terrible.
 If they want their data be horrible, you don't have to put up with that.
 You can change that.
 You can exit, right?
 So don't allow yourself to be walked all over, right?
 On top of all of this, the thing you could do is give a time.
 For those of you who remember Yeshua, his Hebrew name, Jesus, Yeshua telling John to give
 the tree another year when John wanted to was asking about, "Do we cut the tree down?"
 And his response was "Nope."
 You get it, fertilize it, put some water and give it another year.
 Assume that it has the opportunity to become a good tree.
 Assume that it has a tree that has an opportunity to bear good fruit.
 If you can do all of these things, even if you find out that the person is just being
 exactly what you assumed in the first place, if you do all of these things, you will find
 your attitude, it will be in a considerably different place.
 You'll find that your happiness will be something that you can choose.
 You can choose to be happy.
 You will find that you will have healthier boundaries.
 You will find that you will have much safer ways to approach situations like this.
 And as a leader, not only will it make your leadership better, not only will it guide you
 to greater respect, trust, loyalty, but it will help you to be a phenomenal example to your team.
 Now listen, many leaders are frustrated because they don't have time and tools to lead
 well.
 Your day gets filled up with fires, people drama, meetings that are simply a waste of time,
 and you never seem to get to what's important, and what actually moves the business forward.
 Reading books and listening to podcasts aren't helping, and not much about your work life
 is changing for the better.
 The thing is, most leaders don't know how to implement what they've learned, assuming it was
 good information to start with.
 Maybe it wasn't.
 And this is why we created the next level of leadership live event.
 If you feel frustrated or stuck about work these days, go to cricicardo.com/events.
 That's cricicardo.com/events.
 Registration opens December 1st with $500 off every ticket you buy, but that's for short
 period of time.
 You'll learn lessons we practice daily in our business that are only taught at this event
 or inside one of our coaching programs, and you'll have hours of workshop time and access to
 our coaches to implement.
 So go to cricicardo.com/events before this limited time offer slips away.
 Well, there you have it folks.
 Giving people the benefit of the doubt it's like a superpower that can make the world a little
 bit brighter.
 I hope this encourages you to build bridges instead of walls.
 So let's encourage each other to assume the best in people even when it feels like a stretch.
 Now we'd love to hear from you.
 We'd love to hear your stories, your insights, your questions, your comments, your pushback.
 We'd love to hear it.
 So feel free to share them with us at podcast@crysticardo.com.
 Well, that's all the time that we have for today.
 I hope this information is helped you.
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]