 On today's episode, we have an exciting topic as we continue to discuss what's crucial for
 leaders and business owners in understanding personality styles.
 And today's personality style is understanding the C personality style and its influence
 on conflict.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal of Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover
 that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today we are diving into the world of personality styles again within our team.
 Specifically, we are going to explore the high C personality and its impact on our team
 dynamics.
 What it looks like through conflict, all of that kind of fun stuff.
 So first, as we get into this, I kind of want to set the tone of what a high C personality
 style looks like.
 Now again, if you have not done this for yourself, for your teams, what in the world are you
 waiting for?
 It's super important.
 It's super important for you to understand how to communicate really well in each
 one of these areas and each one of these personality styles.
 How to lean in their direction, it's set them up for success.
 It's just crazy important.
 So high C personality styles are we call the detail people.
 They are all about details.
 They are all about accuracy.
 They are all about making sure that things are logical and that they understand them and that
 they can get to it through a series of processes and that they can get to things through facts.
 Logic and facts are super, super important with the high C personality style.
 They really do not like, it's funny.
 We're going to talk about the emotions of the high C and it's interesting.
 They don't like emotions in processes.
 They don't like emotions in decision making.
 They try to avoid that kind of stuff.
 They love things to be more objective.
 They really want to make sure that things are logical and factual and simple in their minds.
 I always say that high C's love two places, Excel spreadsheets and Google because you can
 find anything on Google and nowadays for the younger folks that would be YouTube.
 You can build anything in an Excel spreadsheet.
 They love those aspects.
 They are the kind of folks that make great administrative people.
 They love doing the same thing over and over and over again.
 They don't want a lot of change.
 They can't stand change.
 Change is conflict.
 So while they also don't like emotion in decision making, the things that stress out a high
 C, the high C's biggest fears are sounding stupid or being wrong.
 They want to be right, but they really hate being wrong and they cannot stand sounding
 stupid.
 So while they don't like emotions in decision making or in processes, if they are stressed
 out, if they are worried about sounding stupid or being wrong, you are going to see strong
 displays of those emotions.
 It will be surprising to you how much you see emotion coming from somebody who you feel like
 that you've been working with for a while.
 You feel like you don't really see a lot of emotion in things.
 So that tends to be the high C personality style there.
 Detail people, very factual, can't stand change.
 They are not focused on people.
 This is funny.
 Only the highest people people get offended by this.
 The highest get offended by this, but the high C's absolutely agree with this.
 High C's, there are times they don't like people.
 They prefer to be alone.
 They prefer to be by themselves.
 They never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever want to be in a big group of people.
 They just don't like it.
 That's never going to be the place that they want to be in.
 They will never want to be sent to a retention.
 That is just something that you're just not going to see with the high C.
 They don't want to be sent to a retention.
 They do want to be recognized, but they want to be recognized in a one-on-one situation.
 Understand that they love data, they are incredibly analytical and they are incredibly
 factual.
 And they think through things to a great degree.
 So a high C is the kind of person who might go spend an hour researching something before they
 spend five minutes on it.
 And they're going to have every detail and details that don't even apply.
 Some details that don't even matter, but they will have gotten through all of the information
 that they need to be able to make decisions or be able to work on the thing that they're working
 on.
 Your aspects of the high C, high Cs need to know the 30,000 foot view before they work on
 the five foot project.
 What am I saying?
 If you were to say to a high D, I need you to go and build a table.
 The high D will be like, "Great, they'll be gone, no details whatsoever, they will go build
 a table.
 It's not going to be the prettiest table, but it's going to be sturdy."
 And you can use that sucker and they have no clue what the world you're using it for, but you
 now have a table.
 The high C cannot do that.
 Why?
 Because the table doesn't even match the environment it's going in.
 They don't even know whether it's made out of the same material that's required.
 The high C needs to know where is it going.
 What do you want it to look like?
 What do you want it made out of?
 What style?
 Everything.
 Is this wood?
 Is this, you know, made out of metal?
 What is this thing made out of?
 Obviously, it's not a concrete table, hopefully not, but you know, what do you want this thing
 made out of?
 Where's it going?
 What's the size?
 What's the colors?
 What is the room going to look like?
 What's the floor it's going to be on?
 What chairs are going to use?
 If they don't have all that information, it makes it incredibly difficult for them to build
 what they believe you want.
 So if you don't give them the correct details, then they believe they are going to fail on
 the expectation.
 Because they don't know what to do.
 They don't have all the right information.
 So instead of working on a set table, what they will tend to do is do what we call putting it
 on the back burner.
 And they won't go get information.
 They won't ask questions and they keep them on as we're talking through this we're talking
 about in the negative sides.
 We're talking about somebody who hasn't matured in their personality style and understands themselves
 really well.
 The immature high sea is going to put it on the back burner.
 Not ask questions and wait for somebody to come along and tell them what to do.
 So after a week, you don't have a table, you go to the high sea and you're like, hey, where's
 my table?
 I don't know how to know what you want me to do.
 What do you mean?
 You didn't tell me what the environment is going to be, what you want to make out of all
 these aspects.
 Well, why didn't you come talk to me?
 Because I figured you'd come give me all the information.
 This is something that you will see with the high sea.
 So it is incredibly important to make sure that you are communicating incredibly well
 with the high sea with all the information that they need.
 Now I put the emphasis on that because many people are going to communicate the way that
 they receive information.
 And if you're not a high sea, you're not going to give enough information.
 So instead of communicating to yourself, remember you're communicating to somebody who needs more
 details.
 So I will over communicate and then ask questions, does that make sense?
 Is there anything that's confusing?
 Is there anything you don't understand?
 What other questions do you have?
 And I will go through everything as much as I can to get two a place of believing that this
 high sea knows exactly what's expected and I'll have a repeat of back to me.
 What do you think the expected result is?
 So this is super important for you when you're communicating with a high sea.
 So whether it's a leader to co-workers, whether it is in a relationship, whether it's in your
 family, you know, some of you parents have that high sea that drives you nuts because
 they need so much to ask.
 Somebody questions about the thing and you're like, just do the thing.
 They're super meticulous and particular in their room.
 They know if the air has been moved.
 If somebody has come in and breathed in the air in their room, they know it.
 Their books are in correct ordering very possibly by color and their sector is super organized
 and you know, their clothes may even be in their closet, you know, left to right by colors
 and it's just this is how their brain operates.
 So when you don't lean in their direction with high levels of quality communication, you're
 not setting them up for success.
 Now caveat high seas.
 This is what I tell all of my high seas.
 It is your job to come get the information not to wait for it.
 It's important that your high seas understand.
 If you don't have the information, don't you dare put it on the back burner and wait
 for somebody to tell you.
 But off your butt, come get the information.
 Come ask questions.
 It's your job, it's your responsibility.
 Don't wait for me to come tell you what to do if you don't understand.
 Now hopefully I've done a good job in explaining it.
 But what if I haven't?
 Right?
 The last thing I can do is wait a week to discover that the table is not being built.
 Right?
 So great.
 Come ask questions that will help me to understand.
 I did not do a good enough job communicating with you.
 It leaders, family members, parents, spouses.
 If you do the other aspects of what I'm talking about, you ask those questions, you lay it
 all out there, then you are doing a great job of getting that information to that high sea.
 Just know the high sea is also not going to be the fastest processor.
 So while the high sea could be standing there saying, yep, I get it in the moment 20 minutes
 later they may, they may, they will process through.
 That didn't come up in that discussion.
 So definitely it would be smart for you to follow up with like a follow up email or conversation
 saying, hey, just check in to see if you have any new questions or anything.
 Once again, caveat high seas, go get the information.
 If 20 minutes later you come up with something else, go get the information.
 I don't care if you email it, text it, go see them in person, get the information that answers
 the question that you have.
 Now, how do we adapt our communication to that high sea notes?
 It's super important to understand and explain to your team, whoever is working with
 a high sea, how high seas handle conflict.
 High seas do not handle conflict well.
 Sorry, they just don't.
 They struggle with conflict.
 They struggle with the potential of being wrong.
 They really struggle with the potential of sounding stupid, right?
 They are not going to do well in areas of change, areas of conflict, areas of uncertainty.
 They're never going to be the person who takes the big risks, right?
 They're never going to be the person who goes, oh man, I cannot wait to go try something that
 absolutely may fail.
 That's not going to be your high sea, right?
 They don't want to be recognized in front of other people and they sure as heck don't want to
 make mistakes in front of other people.
 That you will see responses from that high sea that just below you away.
 If they feel like they are looking stupid, that their mistakes are being shown, then what
 you will tend to see them doing is responding with emotion.
 High seas will go to battle with logic.
 They will go to battle with throwing people into the bus.
 They will go to battle by pushing back on stuff and blaming somebody else, blaming leadership.
 They will change the topic with different facts that have nothing to do with the discussion.
 Emotionally, they will fight like crazy to get the blame off of them.
 This is a tough thing.
 And unfortunately, because they can have a tendency to battle with facts and logic, even if it
 has nothing to do with the thing that they're talking about.
 Listen, and people go, "Well, they've got to be right."
 I mean, the thing that they just said is accurate.
 But if you're not asking the questions, does that have anything to do with what we're talking
 about, then you're going to get stuck right in that little logic spinwheel, right?
 So understand that that's how they have a tendency to respond when they're stressed out.
 High seas that don't want to take responsibility or ownership.
 A lot of times high seas don't want ownership of something.
 So instead, they'll somewhat self-sabotage the process and then put it back on the leader who
 gave it to him and blame the leader in the hopes that the leader takes it back.
 So it's very important to recognize if you are wanting them to take ownership, you have
 to get them to say that they are taking ownership of the thing.
 And then you still have to watch down the road to see if they try to get rid of it.
 So when stress comes about, it's harsh.
 It can be very difficult with a high sea because failure just doesn't appear to be an option
 in their minds.
 And that's where you have to train them and teach them that failures not only in option, it's
 inevitable.
 It's a must.
 If you're going to move things around, then you're going to fail at something.
 So if you can understand how they handle conflict and if your team members can understand
 it, then you can start to catch the signs.
 And instead of battling back, don't bother back, start pushing in with perspective.
 Hey, help me to understand.
 You just said this, but what does that have to do with this?
 Hey, help me to understand it sounds like you're blinding me for you not taking ownership
 of this project.
 Hey, help me to understand and just press in.
 It's like I say, I watch it like a movie.
 You already know how they're going to respond because you've dealt with them before you've
 led them before you've experienced them before.
 So kind of watch it like them when we don't get caught up, don't get emotionally handcuffed
 to the things that they're saying, listen to what they're saying.
 And then push back if you need to, right?
 And again, all of this is a daunting communication for the conflict aspects that we might experience
 with a high sea.
 What about the positive aspects of the high sea?
 Oh my gosh, these are some of your best administrative people.
 These are folks when you think nobody wants to sit in a cubicle and do the same job all day
 long, every day, five days a week, all year or five years later, the high sea personality
 style does.
 Why?
 Because the hate change changes conflict.
 So when you're looking for somebody to really get in the details, if you're looking for somebody
 in your accounting department, you probably don't want to high eye because there's going
 to be zero's missing.
 They're not going to be the greatest detail people.
 Sorry, eyes.
 I'm not sorry.
 You know, it's true.
 You know, it's true.
 And you want to talk all day long.
 High sea wants to get to work.
 How do we not to stuff out?
 How do we solve these numbers?
 How do we analyze this and tackle it with logic and facts, right?
 So when you're looking at the high sea personality style, they are so phenomenal at helping
 a team accomplish things through the detail process.
 Don't try to put a high sea in a job that constantly changes.
 Put them in the role that they want to experience doing the same thing over and over and
 over again.
 Every day, for years to come.
 Right?
 That's where you're going to find a lot of their strengths.
 That's where you're going to find them.
 So.
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue
 when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having
 a lack of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life, it all starts
 with having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand
 the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with, whether it be
 at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to Chrissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and
 personality profiles for your team two day.
 Get it for your family members.
 Today, as you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to Chrissacrittle.com/store 2 day.
 So back to, I had to take that sidetracked into the positive aspects because you need to understand
 every personality style has incredible benefits to your team.
 So back to the conflict resolution, what do we do about it?
 Again, high levels of quality communication, not only with the high sea, but with all team members,
 helping team members to learn how to lean in each other's direction.
 Making sure that you're watching who the high sea is working with, I will tell you that the
 high sea struggles with the high eye because the high sea sees the high eye as someone who talks
 a lot, but doesn't really get to good quality facts.
 The high sea is actually admire the high ds because they're strong and they do offer it off
 of some detail not much, but they're really task-focused.
 Both the high d and the high sea are task-focused and the high sea just really kind of
 admires not of the high d.
 The high sea is like the high ss, but they kind of see them as the gold and retriever.
 They see them as that support person who they have a lot in common with when it comes
 to the conflict and change and all that, but they see them as being suckers to other people.
 The high ss tend to really want to support and take care of other people, high seas don't.
 That's not their real focus.
 The emotional side doesn't come in until they feel like they're being called out on something
 or they look wrong.
 Make sure that you're helping them to understand what good conflict resolution looks like.
 They don't need to lose all their worth that it's okay in being wrong.
 There is no sounding stupid, you can ask stupid questions and that's okay.
 Nobody's going to treat you like crap.
 Make sure nobody treats anybody like crap.
 Help them to understand that it's okay to take responsibility.
 Help them understand that it's their job to get to answers.
 Work through the things that help them to know these are the things I expect from you.
 When we get into conflict, here's how I want you to resolve it.
 Did you have the facts?
 Don't throw somebody under the bus.
 Don't change into deflect details and information.
 Don't worry about looking wrong.
 Let's get to how we solve the problem.
 What happened?
 How did it happen?
 How do we fix it?
 How do we make sure it never happens again?
 Help them to get to those aspects to see that they have not lost worth.
 They have not lost value, they're not stupid, they're not dumb.
 But we had a situation that needed to be fixed.
 So put those strategies in place, make sure there's lots of communication.
 And again, make sure that you're not getting caught up in the emotional aspect.
 If they become very emotional with battling through failure, you're going to have to have
 a level head.
 You're going to have to pay attention and watch what happens.
 It's interesting for me as a person who watches communication like this happened between
 leaders and their team members.
 I can see something that somebody just totally misses in a heartbeat because it sounded right.
 And so they keep on moving on and they don't realize it has nothing to do with what's
 being discussed.
 So let's also talk about suffer flexion as well as personal growth.
 So high seas, it is okay to take ownership of your communication style.
 You need to, you've got to understand that your fears of being wrong or sounding stupid are
 ridiculous.
 Right?
 If somebody's judging you on that, then you don't need that person in your circle of friends.
 You don't need to listen to that person.
 If you're wrong, you're wrong.
 Take responsibility and move on.
 That's all the problem.
 If you don't ask questions because you're afraid of sounding stupid, guess what?
 It's a self-fulfilling prophecy.
 Listen to me whether you're a high-seer, not.
 Quality perspective gathering is key to having the right information.
 But what do we do?
 I don't have a problem asking questions.
 I ask all kinds of questions.
 It's hilarious on our monthly Mastermind Q&A session that I do.
 I give a few minutes for people to all get on.
 But then I'm looking at the folks that I'm coaching, these business owners and these business
 leaders, and I'm looking at the experts in their fields that I would love an answer to.
 Richard Gazell is one of the, yes, his last name is Gazell.
 And he's a vet.
 He runs an animal hospital.
 He got a little bit of that.
 He's made for that.
 He's somebody that I've like, man, if Richard comes on early, I'm going to ask him a question.
 I need to know this about animals.
 And he does, you know, because it's something that I'm not afraid of.
 I'm not afraid to gain perspective people.
 I used to be.
 I didn't want to sound stupid.
 I'm not high-seeing.
 I see.
 I think it was 40-ish.
 Something like that.
 But I've come to a place of understanding that the more information I gain, the better decisions
 I make.
 So I can make better decisions with quality perspective.
 So high-sees get over the fear of sounding stupid and get over the fear of being wrong.
 They don't make you unworthy.
 They don't make you less valuable.
 All right.
 And if anybody thinks so, then there's something wrong with that person.
 It's okay to be wrong.
 Just fix it.
 So, okay to ask a bunch of questions to get to quality perspective.
 Just don't waste people's time with a bunch of questions that have nothing to do with the thing
 that you should be working on.
 But gain quality perspective.
 Ask questions.
 It's okay.
 Take ownership of your roles.
 I know there is a fear that you have from time to time of man.
 If I take ownership in this thing fails, it's all about me.
 Listen.
 The sooner you learn to break that fear and start taking control by grabbing the ownership
 of the thing that you're responsible for and seeing it through to the end, the sooner you
 can make mistakes and learn from them mistakes.
 Well, Chris, that kind of goes against the concept.
 I don't want to make mistakes.
 I know.
 The sooner you find out that it's okay to make mistakes, the sooner you will be okay with
 making mistakes.
 You got to do it.
 You just got to crowd the bull by the horns.
 Take ownership, take responsibility.
 See things through to the end.
 Don't throw people into the bus.
 Right?
 Grow you.
 If you will do this, you will be blown away with your abilities.
 I talk about in the personality styles video.
 People always think that the high deeds make the greatest coaches.
 You got the coaches that are checking.
 I can't remember what his name Bobby Knight.
 I think he used to check the chairs and yell and screaming everybody's like, man, that's a great
 leader right there.
 That's not a person who's yelling.
 His leadership's not in checking chairs.
 His leadership is in how did he lead somebody to a place that would normally get to, to the
 winningist NFL coaches in history.
 Our Tom Landry and Bo Walsh, who would walk aside, line and barely speak anything.
 I don't know.
 Very calm.
 I believe both guys were high seas.
 For the amount that I studied those guys, I believe that they were high sea personality styles
 and look at where they made it to.
 But there are also people who took responsibility.
 There are also people who didn't throw people into the bus.
 They recognized their shortcomings and they recognized their strengths and they focused on their
 strengths.
 So high seas, I want you to give yourself the permission that it is okay to be wrong.
 It's okay.
 Chances are probably not.
 But it's okay if you are.
 High seas tend to be right because they are the ones that do the most research, right?
 But guess what, sometimes you're wrong.
 It's okay.
 Give yourself the permission to ask questions.
 The self-fulfilling prophecy of not asking questions is eventually you look stupid because you
 didn't ask the questions.
 I didn't ask any questions because I didn't want to look stupid.
 Yeah, but now you look stupid because you had a responsibility of something and you don't
 have the answers.
 And you don't know what you're doing.
 So now it looks stupid that you didn't ask questions.
 Don't allow the self-fulfilling prophecy, right?
 Learn how you can communicate better.
 Learn how you can lean in the direction.
 No high seas believe that everybody should lean in their direction.
 Listen, you have got to become an expert at leaning in the other personality style directions.
 It's okay, it's going to get you better results if you do.
 It will help you accomplish what you want to accomplish by leaning in their direction.
 Other personality styles do yourself a favor and talk about how a high sea can lean in
 your direction.
 Hey, here's how I do well with communication.
 Here's some things that you can do.
 You know, here's some things that I know that when we get into a meeting, you know, high eyes
 or like, I know we get into meeting your straight to the details.
 Man, I would love to know how your weekend was.
 Yeah, but I don't care about that.
 That's not what we're here for.
 I know, but can you give me two minutes worth?
 Right?
 You can kind of share what it looks like.
 The high sea doesn't want to talk about their weekend.
 They probably don't care about your weekend.
 They care about the details of the thing that they came to the meeting for.
 But if you can help them see that it opens you up and gets you to trust them more and get
 you to be more vulnerable with them, then hopefully they will learn, okay, you know, a couple
 minutes of chit chat is okay.
 Let's do that.
 Get that out of the way and get on to the details.
 So personality styles, all personality styles work with each other to one, find out how you
 need to lean in their direction and then help them to see how they need to lean in yours.
 And this is all for the success of communicating so that we can win with projects with roles
 with jobs, with whatever we're trying to accomplish.
 These eyes, S, as if you will understand the high sea is an incredible benefit because of their
 ability to stay focused on task.
 There are ability to get to the details.
 There are ability to stay doing the same job over and over again and knocking it out and getting
 it done with excellence.
 If you will understand that the new understand how important it is to lean in their direction, just
 also help them to lean in yours.
 So to you leaders, what are you going to do to make sure that all personality styles understand
 each other, that the dees and the eyes and the S is understand the sea personality style,
 what to look for, how to communicate well, how to push back if they have to, you know,
 how to resolve conflict, what are you going to do?
 You've got to take these tools that you're learning today and begin to implement these.
 Now, many leaders are frustrated because they don't have time and tools to lead well.
 Your days get filled up with fires, people drama meetings that are simply a waste of time and
 never seem to get to what's important and what actually moves the business forward.
 Reading books and listening to podcasts aren't helping except for this one and not much about
 your work life is changing for the better.
 And there's a simple reason because most leaders do not know how to implement what they've learned
 and that's assuming that it was good information to start with.
 And this is why we created the next level leadership live event.
 So if you're feeling frustrated or stuck about work these days, go to crisslicardo.com/events
 that's crisslicardo.com/events and register for the next level leadership live event.
 The registration opens December 1st with $500 off every ticket you buy, but that's for a short
 period of time.
 Now you're going to learn lessons we practice daily in our business that are only taught at this
 event or inside one of our coaching programs and you'll have hours of workshop time as
 well as access to our coaches during that time.
 So go to crisslicardo.com/events and make sure that you take advantage of this limited time
 offer before it slips away.
 Well folks in conclusion, I want you to remember in a nutshell the high sea personality
 style brings invaluable precision and depth to our team.
 It is amazing.
 By recognizing and adapting to this style, you're empowering your team to handle conflicts more
 effectively and nurture a collaborative work environment.
 It's that important.
 Now we would love to hear from you.
 We'd love to hear your stories, your insights, so feel free to share them with us at podcast
 at crisslicardo.com.
 Well folks that's all the time we have for today.
 I hope that this has helped me.
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]