 On today's episode, let's discuss what it takes for a team to get it right.
 Stay tuned as we explore the stories, strategies, and secrets behind these incredible
 moments.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal of Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover
 that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show.
 Folks, I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today we've got an episode that's all about the amaziness of teamwork.
 When your team gets it right.
 So I want to talk first about how important it is for leaders to create a clear roadmap
 so that the team can, as I do my air quotes, get it right.
 This is the most important piece of everything we're going to be talking about in this
 episode.
 So if you do not paint a clear roadmap, then you can't have a clear expectation.
 So let's just start with that concept.
 With so many folks, they hire people, they put them in a position and they just expect
 that they know what to do.
 They expect they know exactly where to go.
 They expect that they know all the things that must be done correctly.
 And yet so many times I haven't even paid a clear roadmap to them.
 They haven't given them a clear vision.
 So as a leader, if you want to have great team success, if you want teams to be able to accomplish
 things together, then you've got to become a great map maker.
 You've got to become somebody who can draw a map, paint a picture, help people to see what
 the destination looks like.
 Whenever we're talking about things like vision for us, we use the understanding the definition
 that vision is a destination.
 Now, if I'm going to give my team a vision, then it's a vision of where we're going.
 It's not a vision of where we are.
 It's not even technically a vision of a couple of steps forward.
 It's here's the destination.
 Here's where we want to end up.
 Why?
 Because the destination has the clear expectation to it.
 Now, caveat to that is, is every now and then you'll move in the direction of a vision
 and some things may change so that the direction the destination may be a little bit different.
 It may have changed.
 We're just talking about in general terms, if I want team success, I must paint a destination.
 This is where I want you to go.
 Then I must give incredibly clear goals or what we would call strategy.
 For us, mission is your purpose for existence or in that can be a purpose for anything to exist.
 If you're married, you should have a mission for your marriage.
 If you're raising kids, you should have a mission for raising your kids.
 If we're having a team project, we should have a mission.
 What's the purpose of this project that we're doing?
 The mission is the purpose vision is the destination where we're headed to.
 In strategy is how we get there.
 Many times people interchange the words, you know, strategy with goals.
 So that's fine.
 A lot of people tend to use goals.
 We use strat plan.
 We focus people on having a strategic plan of where they're going to go.
 The key is how am I going to get to that destination?
 Does it look like to get to the destination?
 So an example I use all the time is many people have been to the beach or you've been to the mountains.
 You've gone on vacations somewhere.
 Let's just say the beach.
 Everybody's been to the beach or most people have been to the beach.
 If you've been to the beach before, then you know what it looks like.
 You know what you're going to do when you get there.
 If you're going to sit under an umbrella or throw a frisbee out in the hot sand.
 If you're going to get the water or if you're going to read a book, where you're going to probably go eat dinner.
 If you're going back to the same beach, you know what kind of food you're going to eat.
 You know how long you're going to be hiding in the shade after you got a bad sunburn.
 All these things you already know what it's like to be at that destination.
 But how do we get there?
 So the goals or the strategy of getting to the destination is going to be all of those pieces.
 We have to call and we have to get a reservation at a place that we're going to stay
 out of. It's a hotel or an Airbnb or whatever.
 If we're flying to the beach, we've got a book airplane tickets.
 If we're driving, we've got to make sure that we've got good GPS.
 We've got to have gas on the car and we've got to pack our suitcases and all the things that we want to take.
 And go through our laundry list of all the items we're going to need while we're down there.
 And all these different pieces, we have to make sure that we've got time off on the calendar.
 We're taking vacation, the kids are not supposed to be in school and yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi, yaddi,
 The way of what we're trying to get to either way what we are trying to create in having a successful vacation at the beach.
 Is the strategy of how we get to a successful vacation.
 If the expectation is that we have a specific type of vacation, a specific type of enjoyment.
 Whatever it is, if we plan on reading three books or we plan on just sitting there and you know,
 drinking margaritas, I don't know, whatever it is, we need to make sure that when it's done,
 it lives up to the expectation and the strategy is how we're going to get there.
 So as a leader to have team success, you've got to paint that roadmap,
 draw that roadmap of what it looks like to have the successful destination.
 Now the thing you have to do is you must must must communicate effectively.
 So every aspect of that strategy must be communicated well.
 Every opportunity for failure and what we're going to do about it must be communicated well.
 Every goal if we have a mouthpiece of, you know, this is going to be the first goal that we're going to get to on our way to our destination.
 It's got to be communicated clearly.
 Every expectation of tools and things that are used in resources must be communicated effectively.
 So all of the stuff that helps somebody understand how to execute the strategy as well as what the expected result of the project is has to be communicated superclearly.
 On top of that, you have to communicate effectively what my specific role is.
 How does this fit into my carries? How does this fit into my KPIs?
 What does it look like for me to do am I still doing my regular job while I'm pulling this thing off?
 How much time are you expecting me to spend on this?
 All of these things are not only a must, but you will be amazed at how well team members work when they are going to be able to do it.
 Well, well team members work when the picture is clear when the roadmap is clear.
 On top of that, you have to create trust.
 Now, in order to create trust, there's a, there's a tone that goes into this vulnerability obviously is, is the the biggest key to creating high levels of trust, right?
 So if we are going to embark on a new project, if we are going to go after something big and huge and I as a team member don't currently trust you as a leader, then I'm going to probably hold back a bunch.
 I'm probably not going to put everybody myself into this thing.
 I'm probably going to be very cautious so that I don't make mistakes because I don't want to get in trouble.
 There's going to be a whole lot of things that I'm going to do to change the way that I approach this new project, right?
 I'll have all of that. I'm sure it makes sense to you.
 But what if I have trust in you?
 If I trust you as my leader, then I'm, man, I have no problem sticking my neck out.
 I have no problem taking risk.
 I have no problem taking ownership. I have no problem having buy and why?
 Because I trust that if I fail, then you've got my back.
 Yes, I'm maybe tough. I may need accountability, all that stuff.
 But if I understand how you handle failure and I understand how you treat people and I know that I can absolutely expect your response.
 I can anticipate you as a leader and I trust you, then I'm going to put my neck out.
 I'm going to take risk.
 I'm going to tackle this with everything I've got because I trust you.
 So there's a massive difference of what you can expect out of a person, out of a team member or out of a team productivity wise, when it comes to trust.
 If people can't trust you as a leader and they can't trust that you're going to treat them all when they screw up.
 And by the way, you should be expecting failure.
 I tell my team when we work through projects and things my brain always the first thing my brain goes to is how can this thing.
 I want to know how what can fail as soon as possible.
 So we can already start fixing those pieces, those aspects.
 And then everything after we've thought through if we've done a good job ripping this project apart and thinking through this project and we've come up with as many failures as we could think of.
 And then something lands and something hits or something fails that we didn't think about. Okay, that was the unexpected. How do we fix it? No, I'll talk about that in a little bit too.
 So trust is a big big piece.
 Fourth piece of this for leaders is it's got to be.
 It has to be. It must be a shared vision.
 Well, of course, Chris, we're all going in the same direction. Nope. Nope. Sorry.
 I can't tell you how many leaders for some strange reason.
 Decide not to share the entire vision with the team who's accomplishing or pulling off the project.
 Folks, we all need to understand not just what our part is, but what is the expected result as a whole.
 And this is going to go into some great pieces that I'll talk about in a little bit. But if I know the bigger picture.
 And I can see my role in that picture.
 I don't have to be the champion behind all of this stuff. I just need to know what am I doing and why is it important.
 But if I can see that I'm part of a project that's bigger than me, if I'm part of something that's bigger than just what I'm doing on a daily basis,
 then an amazing thing happens with that shared vision team members like to go accomplish things together.
 They like to be a part, even if they don't want to be, you know, center stage or recognized, they still want to be a part of something that is accomplishing something that they consider to be bigger than what they're doing today.
 Right? So the more you share this vision, it becomes a shared vision among team members, then it means that I'm a part of something that's bigger than just my day to day, the same thing that I do every day, day in day out.
 So it helps them to have ownership.
 It helps them to have buy in this is powerful when it comes to team success.
 So what does it look like? Or the essentials kind of of team success? Well, I've talked a lot about setting that clear goal.
 Here's a very important thing.
 The goals, the strategy must be achievable.
 So as you create this strategy, no matter how big it is, if it's smaller big and you put some goals to it,
 they've got to be achievable goals. Can I get to this part?
 So let's say we're doing a year-long project. Man, that's a big project, right?
 So if you're doing a year-long project, you don't want to set up the goal of being one year-long.
 You want to create aspects of this big project.
 Break them down into bare minimum.
 90 day smaller goals, smaller achievable goals.
 So that we can see they're getting some wins to this thing, right?
 Now for me, what I'm going to tell you is you take the length of the goal when we do
 strap plan, most strap plans have at least a six to 12 month process that goes with all of the things that we've discovered.
 So it's a lot.
 A lot of stuff that they're going to go on a accomplish and it's huge. It's big for a business, right?
 It's great for a company to cut and by the way, you don't have to be a big business to go through that.
 Most of our businesses that come through are small to medium sized businesses that go through strap plan.
 So I don't want this to sound like oh gosh, this is class so I couldn't pull this off.
 We wouldn't let you in the door if we didn't think you could do it, right?
 So we had this six to 12 month process that we line out the bulk of the stuff that needs to get done and who's going to do it.
 But then we break it down also into what's going to get done by when.
 So that people don't just look at this and go so we just work on this thing for 12 months and then at 12 months we get to see if it worked out.
 Nope.
 Processes and goals and achievements all along the way. We put timelines together so we can see what should be done first, how long is it going to take.
 What's it going to look like when we get there all that kind of fun stuff.
 So not only do you need to set clear goals and strategy, but they must be achievable if they are not.
 If you're putting things on the table that are too much of a stretch for your team and just plan on there being failure.
 I'm going to be obviously it's going to be done right. So instead make sure we can accomplish this now.
 I will tell you so many folks put out goals and the goal doesn't have any defined ways of getting the goal accomplished.
 You must must make the goal measurable.
 What are the tasks going to be so like let's say if we were working on you know what's a common thing that comes out of.
 Shrap, a lot of times we will have oh I talked about this recently processes which is a big thing processes inside of a business usually take.
 At least six to nine months to get done because the people that are doing it are also still doing their regular role right so we're implementing new things.
 We don't just go hey you've got to go get all your processes done instead we go through a heavy detail process of saying you have the first find out what processes are needed.
 What processes do we have what processes are needed, which processes need to be optimized what processes are documented.
 We go through step step step step step step step step step and find all these pieces of information before you start creating any new processes or before you start optimizing any old processes.
 We go through all these different aspects so somebody can go oh my gosh we've never even thought about that.
 We haven't even looked at that okay great now we have all of these elements that we need to do that is clear it's measurable.
 All I have to do is go do number one number two number three each time I accomplish one of these things it's measurable I can come up with a clear understanding of did I accomplish that or not because the details were good.
 So let's just say take one aspect of something that's measurable every later must sit down and review every process that they currently have while reviewing all the processes that don't exist yet that 13 needs and they must give.
 You know steps to the current processes of how they must be optimized and they must give information on whether or not all the processes are documented have they been trained on are they easily accessible all of these little details.
 It sounds like oh gosh that's a lot it's actually not when it's broken down into clear measurable goals then you get success when you have it broken down this for all my gosh Chris that sounds like so much work.
 Hey folks these are the things that are holding you back from greater success.
 You've learned how to make a widget and sell a widget.
 We don't actually the funny thing is is that we tell people the power and strap plan is we're not teaching you how to sell the widget you've already learned how to sell.
 We're showing you all of the things that are holding you back from greater productivity from greater profit from greater success.
 Fix these things the money comes easy it's crazy.
 So when you do it this way it may sound like a lot of work but believe it or not it makes all of your future work way easier.
 It makes the work of all the team members and we're doing those processes way easier so as you're creating these goals the strategy.
 Make sure that you're making the tasks the steps the goals measurable also put accountability to them what does it look like for there to be accountability to the tasks actually being accomplished now this is big.
 I talked about this recently about how a lot of folks are using a program that's been out for many years and unfortunately they go full bore into this program and then find out that the accountability is terrible to it.
 But this program is very popular and unfortunately the lack of accountability causes there to be a lot of problems people will be moving along in their project only to find out you know hey everything's great everything's great everything's great only to find out three six months later things are falling apart why are they falling apart why thought everything was okay.
 It's lacking massive accountability you have to have accountability pieces to your strategy.
 You have to have accountability to your goals so what does it look like to line out the accountability to accomplishing the specific steps.
 Who's there who's checking on these things who's making sure that when somebody says that everything's going well that they're actually getting deeper into it and finding out what that looks like.
 You really run through all the expectations and make sure that the expectations are being met I'll tell you one of the things that we do and what are the tools that we use and I'll talk about this before but.
 We use a saga and so whenever we assign you know six to 12 months worth of stuff for a whole company to do we put it in a system that allows them to see all the aspects of accountability who's going to do it what are they going to do it.
 Once it's going to get done by who's going to be a part of that process other team members I didn't dig in on this did anything get shifted or just that when you change some timelines did anybody mark something off that wasn't completely done yet so.
 All of the stuff that goes with these pieces this strategies have to have accountability to it so make sure that you're assigning that as well now.
 As I said earlier one of the first things that I will do is I will go straight to what will make this fill are how would this fills is what I tend to focus on first how can this possibly fill why.
 Because my brain loves to solve the failures before they happen.
 It's everybody hates it you know that failure in the midst of of a project or something that they're doing yes we all understand but.
 My focus is not being afraid of the failure my focus is the failures figure's going to happen failure is is inevitable somehow somewhere failure is going to happen with something my question is.
 Can I figure out as many possible ways that it could feel and then mitigate that risk.
 What can I do to reduce the risk of failure happening if I can figure that out and I can help the team to discover that as well.
 Oh my gosh we can solve a lot we can fix a lot of stuff at that point so for me I want to sit down and identify all the possible obstacles I can think of before we put this thing in place.
 I want to get the team on it I want everybody thinking through how can this fail work and you see the problems what do you think is going to work and what's not going to work and you will be amazed at how well the team will see things that you won't see.
 I want to see the team members that can see failure heck of a lot faster than you can why because they're usually on the front lines.
 I want to see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can see the team that you can
 I want to see the team that's going to work and I want to see the team that's going to work and I want to see the team that's going to work and I want to see the team that's going to work and I want to see the team that's going to work and I want to see the team that's going to work and I want to see the team that's going to work and I want to see the team that's going to work and I want to see the team that's going to work and I want to see the team that's going to work and I want to see the team that's going to work and I want to see the team that's going to work and I want to see the team that's going to work and I want to see the team that's going to work and I want to see the team that's going to work and I want to see the team that's going to work and I want to see the team that's going to work and I want to see the team that's going to work and I want to
 They may see something that you don't see and if you're looking at this project is being your baby and this is your thing that you're so excited about.
 And then anytime anybody tries to tell you something might not go well probably not going to receive it very well.
 So get everybody in there and ask the question how can we reduce risk on this how can we what what what what do you see this failing what obstacles do you see and how can we solve this thing.
 If you're doing all these things if you're creating a shared vision if there is a mission behind the thing that we're doing if you are setting up measurable success if you are putting accountability to this.
 I guess what this is going to create in your team motivation not only motivation but unity.
 And if you're looking at what you're looking at is what looks like a plan that can succeed.
 If they can see these steps broken down into small enough goals that they can accomplish and they can see that goal well before the destination and they can accomplish goal after goal after goal.
 And if you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're looking at what you're
 Better team member engagement. So not only are they excited as an individual team member.
 But they will start working with other team members better they will be excited to work with other team members.
 They look forward to accomplish new things now.
 Keep in mind there's going to be problems there's something's going to happen down the road you might have some team members struggling with each other.
 So all of those things. What we're trying to accomplish is how do we get to that ultimate success.
 If you do do these things ahead of time what you're probably going to find is people who are going to already tell you or not even say it out loud but believe this all things going to fail no matter what.
 Because they don't feel appreciated. They don't feel like they've been treated with dignity. You feel like they're being dictated to just go do this thing. This is the boss's new pet project and I've just got to go knock this thing out.
 So you might be shocked to find out that some folks may not have great excitement to go pull off this new project right as a team. Why?
 Because they don't feel like they're being treated the way that they should help them to feel on board help them to feel appreciated help them to feel a part of the team help them to feel like they're input matters help them to feel like you care by asking them what they see and what they feel how they think this thing is going to go.
 And involve them in the process and you will have very motivated and unified team members. It is absolutely amazing. Now with all of this in place.
 We have to celebrate.
 We have to celebrate the process. We have to celebrate the goals being accomplished. We have to celebrate the end result being accomplished.
 You can't just do you can. You can just do a project like this and then move on to the next project.
 But I will tell you you will start to lose motivation.
 Team members will feel great that they accomplished the project but then when everybody disperses it'll be like,
 "Oh, okay, I guess we're just doing stuff right. We're not. We don't get to celebrate the fact that we just accomplished something that seems like it was big.
 You need to celebrate. You need to have team celebrations about the team success. It is crucial. It is vital. It creates a phenomenal feeling of belonging.
 It creates loyalty to your organization.
 Great thing is it creates loyalty to the team a lot of times but it will create loyalty to your organization.
 Now I can tell you, my team, I just always brag about my team because they are just phenomenal. They have done incredible jobs.
 They are constantly helping, constantly leading other people to success.
 Serving like crazy. I just love my team.
 But I will tell you, it is never surprising when we sit down and put together a project.
 We did a few years back. One of the things that we tried to do is we every year take a look at what is our team's capacity.
 What is the capacity of the team? What can we do? What can we add? Can we increase? Where are we?
 We don't want to go after big, lofty goals and not understand whether or not we can pull them off.
 It is ridiculous. It is always the time. What you end up doing is creating chaos instead of success.
 So we like to measure what our resources, whether it is finances, whether it is time, team members, software, tools.
 It doesn't matter what it is. We want to measure those things and say what can we do?
 Well, one year we had some new refokes that had come in and we were talking through what we think we can accomplish.
 Some of the folks like, oh my gosh, we are going to be able to do.
 We are going to add four new events. We are going to do all this stuff.
 Our more veteran folks sat down. We just looked at it and said, okay, here is what I want you to do.
 We are going to measure this. Go measure where the team is. Go measure all of our resources. Go spend time looking at what we can accomplish.
 And then come back and tell me what it is. And they came back and I said, we can only pull off one brand,
 spanking new event. There's a bunch of things we can do. We could do this. We could do this. We could do this.
 But we can't do all of this. And what we settled on is we felt like, okay, we're going to add one new event.
 So we're going to from scratch create a brand new event, run this thing, market it all the way down new lessons everything.
 And what I was so proud of is that the team looked at the resources of the team, the time, the finances, the everything and said,
 if we do more than this, something else is going to pay for it.
 If we do more than this, one event, if we did two events or if we did an event and we did this product over here,
 if we did more than this, something is going to start to fail. So this is the most that we feel like we can do.
 And I was so crazy proud of that. It was just great to hear them not want to try and impress the daylights out of me or the other leaders
 and take on too much.
 Instead, they knew it would be a push. It would be pushing them on their current, you know, roles, but that they could accomplish it.
 We went throughout that year, built this thing, marketed the daylights out of it.
 I did a bunch of interviews and teachings and all kinds of stuff.
 And we got to this event and we pulled that thing off and it was fabulous.
 But a bunch of new clients, we had a bunch of people telling us how great it was.
 And then we celebrated.
 Then we had fun.
 I think we did dinner or something. I can't remember where it was, but we celebrated this that we pulled this whole thing off.
 And just it was great to see what the team had done.
 And for me as a leader, as a business owner, it's great for them that they, you know, felt like they had accomplished something.
 But for me, the biggest joy was seeing them so happy that they pulled something off.
 That they made this event happen. It was fantastic. They're tired with big smiles on their face, right?
 That for me is just a great journey. You've got to celebrate those.
 Now, we didn't have like, it didn't take, I think it took us about nine months, front to back.
 And there wasn't like big goals like, oh, we need to go celebrate this one goal here.
 Sometimes you have projects that are huge, yes, you need to do that.
 Our big thing was celebrated at the end that we had pulled off something that was brand new with some new team members.
 And it was very successful.
 So I'll have it.
 It for me is a fabulous thing to do to get that excitement from the team.
 And you know, they've had the buy and they've had the ownership. They've worked together.
 They've enjoyed it. Great.
 Now, what do we do when we do face some challenges?
 This is if your team can anticipate how you handle problems, this will be a super big part of whether or not they're willing to stick their neck up.
 Now, for me, we have a five step process for one thing that's going wrong.
 And this handles probably 97, 98% of things inside of our business failures inside of our business.
 We have five steps. What happened? How did it happen? Why did it happen?
 How do we fix it? How do we make sure it never happens again?
 What you will find is that your team, if they do not.
 And even if they do, I've had team members in the past that knew this is our process, but still wouldn't take big risks wouldn't stick their neck out because they weren't sure that this is how it went.
 They had to experience it for themselves before they could say, "Oh, okay. I guess that's how we handle failure."
 Right? If your team can't anticipate how you're going to handle failure, then they're probably going to hold back.
 They're probably not going to take big risks. Why? Because they're afraid that you're going to rip their head off.
 So I have had so many times in my leadership career where somebody is holding back on something or not sharing something or not taking a risk.
 When I sit down with them, I'm like, "Hey, what's going on? Why are you not moving out on that?
 Or why are you not putting your whole self into that?" And it always comes down to the fear failure.
 And so I will always say, "Let me ask you a question, how do we handle failure around here?"
 And then it goes, "Well, yeah, you're going to ask what happened and how did it happen?" And they'll walk through the whole process. And then what happens after that?
 And I'm like, "So nobody ripped your head off?"
 "Well, no." Okay. Then what do you afraid of?
 "Huh, I never thought about it like that." Well, start thinking about it that way because this is how we do stuff.
 Now, don't keep making the same mistake. I don't want you to make the same mistake over and over and learn from the whole goal is how do we not do it again?
 And how do we solve this thing and move on? But since you've never experienced having your head ripped off here,
 don't assume that it's going to happen. Challenge our character here. How do we handle you people, clients, vendors? How do we handle things?
 Well, this is a way to, great. Then assume that's the way we're going to do it again. I want you to take risks.
 I'm expecting that you're going to fail at some point. And when you do, let's tackle that sucker and move on.
 If your team can anticipate the way that you will handle their failure, they will be willing to stick their neck out for you.
 Plan in simple. If they have, well, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let me, let
 Playing in simple. If they will ever reprise that, if they can anticipate that you're going to handle it well.
 If they're anticipation is that you're going to rip their head off, then guess what? They're not going to stick their neck out.
 You're going to get a half of their productivity. They're not going to be super excited. They're not going to be super on board.
 They're not going to have ownership. They'll do what they need to do to please you to appease you. Let me say that way.
 But if they know that they can fail and they're not going to get their head ripped off, and they can just fix it. Move on.
 Man, you will be blown away at your team's success. So as we go through all this stuff, we've laid all this stuff out.
 We've laid out clear road maps, strategy, goals, steps, all of these things.
 We've talked about celebration. We also need to make sure that they understand that failure is okay as long as it's not fatal failure.
 And as long as we don't keep doing the same failures over and over again.
 Then that leads us to one last thing. And that is the role of leadership.
 What you must understand is that it is your responsibility to help team members get to success.
 It's your job as a leader to make people successful, not the other way around.
 It's your job as a leader to help people get to a destination that wouldn't normally get there on their own.
 It's your job as a leader to help them tackle this strategy that you've put together or help them put together.
 It's your job to help them to be successful at that strategy.
 So one of the most important things I think is, do you have an open door policy?
 No, I've always had an open door policy. I'll tell my team, this is my door is open. Come on in. You can bug me.
 If it's closed, set up a moment.
 Right? I need my team to know that they can come and talk to me.
 Now, as the business owner, it may not be that you're the person that somebody, you know, two teams away from you, needs to come to you.
 Right? But leaders need to have. So if you have multiple leaders on this project or this thing, then there's got to be the ability to have access.
 People need to be accessible to team members so they can come and talk and ask questions and question things.
 You know, and share that they don't understand something or get some encouragement on something that they're working on because they're not feeling very, you know, successful right at the moment.
 I'm very motivated.
 You need to make sure that they have the ability to talk to you, somebody, some leader.
 When you do this, you automatically increase and build trust.
 You build trust with team members. If leaders below you have the ability to come to you, you build trust with those leaders.
 The more you spend time helping people recognize that you have their back, you're there for them.
 You're going to go forward and try and find the things to help them be successful, but you're also going to be there when they have questions.
 The more trust you're going to get the more trust you get, the more ownership they have, the more buy and they have.
 The more they're willing to stick to next-out and take risks.
 So make sure that you are there for the team members, the leaders whoever it is.
 And if you have leaders that are over certain team members, make sure you're there for those leaders to understand how to lead all this stuff really well.
 On top of that is the leader, you must have frequent efficient communication.
 The meeting process must happen.
 Spending time talking through leading through going over aspects of the project, making sure things are done correctly.
 Don't just ask, is everything going okay? Yes it is.
 And be done with it.
 Dig in and find out if somebody actually understands whether or not it is going okay.
 Communicate often.
 Share what the team's often.
 Make sure that everybody understands everything that's going on.
 Don't be afraid to over communicate aspects of the project with other team members who may not have anything to do with that part of the project.
 Why?
 Because it's exciting.
 It motivates them.
 It helps them to be excited about their part.
 And keep in mind, if you've got leaders under you, then it's also your job to make sure you're training your leaders.
 Now for me, I will tell you, I don't lead my company, my leaders lead my company.
 I don't lead the company.
 I spend my time making the leaders successful in training and teaching and guiding and directing on all the stuff that they need to know.
 And they do a phenomenal job of leading their, you know,
 Joel has his leaders, Aaron has his leaders.
 They have their team members. They lead them all incredibly well.
 My job is to lead the leaders to make sure that they're promoting a collaborative culture.
 So that they can make sure that the teams are working well together.
 So that they can make sure that everything is going the way that we want it to go.
 And the way that we're accomplishing projects and long-term strategies and vision and all that is all coming together.
 And that there's a kind of ability on all of it.
 And there's great communication on all of it.
 On top of that, by doing so, we do something else that's vitally important.
 We train good decision making.
 By doing all of the things that we are talking about today, you do something else phenomenal.
 You teach people how to make good decisions.
 Instead of fighting, holding back, not working together, not communicating well, not leaning in each other's directions.
 You teach good decision making.
 Which isn't that exactly what you want when you're trying to accomplish a goal, a strategy, a destination.
 Absolutely.
 So a big piece of this again, you know, we talk about it all the time as the importance of personality styles,
 importance of communication, especially for something like this.
 If your team does not know how to communicate well together, then it's going to be the thing that holds all this back.
 If your team cannot lean in each other's directions and understand and clearly communicate and set each other up for success,
 then it's going to be the thing that holds us back.
 So make sure you go to Chrissacurve.com/store and get the disk products.
 Make sure you get at least do the disk.
 I highly suggest a disk plus that has the values.
 Make sure that you watch the video with your team.
 That is powerful.
 It's great.
 It's very funny.
 It allows them to have great conversations afterwards and start leaning in each other's directions.
 So folks, keep working together.
 Keep striving for excellence.
 Keep making incredible team moments happen.
 Help your team to accomplish big things and then celebrate the daylights out of it.
 And then move on to the next thing.
 Set up the next thing and you will be amazed at how excited that will be to accomplish the next big thing.
 Now here's a deal we would love to hear from you.
 We want to hear your stories, your insights, your questions, your comments.
 So feel free to share them with us at podcast@christinclervind.com.
 Well folks, that's all the time we have for today.
 I hope this information is helped you.
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life.
 And join us on the next one.
 [Music]