 On today's episode we're diving into canceling co-dependency as we explore what it is,
 how to recognize it in yourself and how to break free from it.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. I hope you're having a fabulous day, wherever you are.
 Today we are diving deep into a topic that affects a lot of individuals and a lot of relationships
 and that is the topic of codependency. Now, as we get into this, I'm going to hit,
 you know, I'm saying we're doing a deep dive, keep in mind.
 This is something we can talk about for, you know, all day long.
 We can talk about this for days. There's a lot to it.
 So I'm going to dive down into what I feel like are some of the most important concepts
 or understandings when it comes to codependency.
 And help you to kind of see if whether or not you are struggling with it or somebody you know is struggling with it.
 We think of codependency. I think a lot of folks have many ideas on what codependency is,
 but really if you just break down the word, co-dependent.
 What we're saying is that there is a person in a relationship who is dependent
 and the other person is a co-dependent.
 In other words, whatever the first person is dependent on the other person is dependent on helping them with that.
 So a lot of times we see codependency in folks who have, you know, somebody might be an alcoholic
 and we have the codependent who comes alongside them and that alcoholism, somebody who is a drug addict
 and any really, any addiction. You can find that somebody is coming alongside that other person.
 Now an easy way to give roles is the taker and the giver.
 The taker would obviously be the addicted one. It doesn't mean that you have to be an addict.
 But it means that there is something that you're dependent on.
 Your dependency is needing another person in your life, in your situation, in your struggle.
 For the other person, a codependent person, their need is to be needed.
 So hopefully this is making sense. It shows up in many different forms.
 Obviously it shows up in romantic relationships, familial relationships.
 I think, again, the easiest one for most people to understand is the look at the person who is enabling the enabler.
 The person who is coming along and being a part of the one who's struggling, like if it's somebody who is struggling with alcoholism.
 So I think that's why it's probably the easiest for people to recognize.
 The key is, is that when we talk about the codependent person, that person would be considered the giver themselves.
 This is a struggle that happens inside somebody who is obviously looking for worth looking for value, struggling to understand their own worth,
 struggling to believe that they have value outside of the codependency.
 In fact, what you will see with codependent people is if they are not needed, they will struggle immensely.
 Because what they feel is that they're worth just tanked.
 So it is not uncommon to see somebody, let's say you have somebody who's now a alcoholic, a drug addict, whatever it is, who gets help.
 And actually, overcomes the struggle that they experienced.
 But somebody has been codependent to them, walking beside them for years.
 And all of a sudden, the person who's getting better is getting stronger, and the codependent person is struggling like crazy.
 Because they don't feel needed anymore.
 They don't feel that they have worth anymore.
 So this is just kind of helping you to see what does it look like to experience codependency?
 What does a codependent person look like?
 Often codependent people feel like they're walking on eggshells.
 They feel like they don't, the person that they are trying to help out.
 The last thing that they want to do is create conflict.
 They want to avoid conflict as much as possible because conflict brings really painful and difficult results.
 They feel the need to always constantly check in with the other person's feeling.
 They take their temperature on a daily basis. How is this person operating?
 How is this person feeling? What am I getting from there?
 What appears to be their emotional state, their mental state?
 They often can be the person who feels like they're the ones who are doing something wrong.
 So you've probably seen this in relationships.
 I have experienced a ton of this in my life where the dependent person that take a look at the world,
 and the person that takes her turns on the codependent person in an incredibly harsh way with attacks,
 with horrible words, with name calling, with blame-shifting, with just all kinds of terrible control and manipulation.
 While it is not uncommon for the codependent person to receive all that, to accept all that,
 to believe that it is their fault and it's something that they have to deal with.
 Another thing, and I had to get over this.
 I had to get over this a lot. It took me many, many years to get over.
 Is feeling sorry for the other person when they are the one who's hurting you.
 Now keep in mind, you've heard me talk about this before.
 You allow people to hurt you by putting yourself in situations.
 So what is another tell-tale sign of a codependent person, a lack of healthy boundaries?
 In my earlier years, I did not have healthy boundaries. I was out to help everyone.
 I was out to, I was codependent in being able to help people overcome their situations,
 not recognizing that it was decimating me.
 And if somebody was out to hurt me and their intentions were to hurt me, if they turned on me,
 then I just felt bad for them. I felt sorry for them.
 I didn't recognize that how was the one who was being hurt in the situation?
 I took blame. I took responsibility.
 Why would somebody do that?
 Well, there's many reasons why.
 There's a lot of reasons why somebody would be in a codependent relationship.
 A lot of it is obviously psychological.
 It's all psychological, but it's also very emotional as well.
 There are beliefs.
 And I just don't know enough about it. I haven't done enough research on it, but there are beliefs that this is something that could be because of your prefrontal cortex.
 Now, I can get there and I struggle at the same time.
 For some people, now keep in mind, your prefrontal cortex doesn't develop until you're about 25 years old, right?
 So you're still working on that.
 But for some people, if it doesn't develop correctly, then their empathy can be something that is like a valve that's just turned on and they become overly empathetic.
 And so that could cause somebody to choose to be very codependent.
 I would love to see more research on that. I've not done a ton on that. I can get there.
 Sure, maybe that does happen. Maybe part of it is biological, but understand that no matter what, no matter what, it's still a choice.
 I am somebody who fights like crazy against the concept of so many decisions that a person made is out of their control.
 You know, that the decisions are out of their control. I really push back on that heavy heavy heavy heavy.
 I literally saw a thing of a gal arguing with a guy to forego logic and focus on fear because emotions are real.
 That is what's taught. It's a very ridiculous way of viewing life that your emotions are the real thing.
 So if you tell yourself that you're a horrible person, well then that's the fact.
 Not any facts of whether or not you've done anything horrible, but just the fact that you have the emotion.
 So I struggle heavily to think that maybe it is, I would never say it could ever possibly be purely biological.
 Could it be a small percentage possibly, yes, maybe I'll give it to that.
 And also you're here, you're saying, I don't have all that information. I just have enough and I'd love to research more.
 I do 100% believe that it is psychological.
 I do 100% believe that some people automatically psychologically believe that it is their job to take care of other people.
 Why do I 100% believe that? That was me.
 The bulk of my life. And to this day, I take care of people. I love people, take care of people. I develop people. I encourage people.
 I teach people. I train people. The difference is I got to a place where I learned that I needed to put in healthy boundaries.
 I got to a place where I felt like God said, "Grow a backbone, man. I was teaching and helping other people to overcome this stuff."
 Literally living it myself. I had to grow back, bone and put in healthy boundaries which did not go over well.
 Went over well for me because I finally was able to do it, but it didn't go over well with other people in my life. Let me just say that.
 So I 100% believe that it is a psychological experience. It can be from life experiences. It can be from growing up with parents.
 You know, it can be trained to you. I know that there is a large portion of my life where guilt and shame is something that was continuously dumped on me through control and manipulation.
 That I am supposed to feel this first of that I have nothing to do with.
 And that was a big part of why I had to be a part of helping people and caring for people and taking care of people because that created a lot of the codependency in me.
 And again, like I said, even though I was helping other people overcome things like codependency like life issues,
 I was struggling to recognize that I was going through it myself.
 It wasn't until God really slapped me upside the head and pointed it out and you can slap me upside the head, but he made it abundantly clear what I was doing that I was shocked.
 And that's the time my life changed.
 That's the time I decided to get really super focused on putting in healthy boundaries.
 Some of those had to be very hard ones. Some of them just had to be, you know, sat in stone.
 Some weren't so desperate, but I had those, those boundaries that I had to put in the healthy boundaries that I had to put in place to help me overcome this crazy condition that I kept myself in.
 Of believing that I wasn't worthy if I wasn't helping that I didn't have value if I wasn't helping.
 So definitely I believe it's psychological.
 I do think, you know, definitely there's a level of things that we've experienced in societies,
 where however the society is set up that many times it could force specific roles that, you know, have to be codependent,
 maybe in abuse situations, but all of that again, to me still comes back to the psychological aspect of this.
 So it doesn't matter, you don't, it doesn't have to be somebody who's addicted.
 You don't have to be codependent to somebody else in addiction to an alcohol drug or something like that, a porn or something like that.
 It's just your feeling that you have to support somebody who is a big time taker.
 Now I will tell you this also manifested in my life when I believed that in choosing a relationship,
 I had no choice but to choose somebody who was controlling, who would be a taker that I didn't verbalize it in my brain,
 as much as tell myself that this controlling person is somebody that I needed.
 I couldn't be with somebody who just loved me for me, who wasn't a taker, who wasn't somebody who really relied on me to take care and support them,
 and praise God, that's another thing that God really shifted in my life.
 So important things to recognize, important things to understand and identify in your life.
 There are a lot of folks, a lot, that are in abusive relationships, mostly women, but they're our men.
 I can tell you from experience that don't recognize what they're in and what they're experiencing.
 Here's my caveat for this. This in no way shape or form gives you the ability.
 Please do not hear anything I'm saying and then choose to claim this experience in your life because you're unhappy with a relationship,
 you're in.
 I did something we're seeing a lot of nowadays where somebody finds some level of a disorder to say, "Oh, let me plug this into my life."
 So I can get out of a situation out of like being in.
 If you're not like being in a situation, discover the truth, what's the real situation?
 If it's codependency, then that's one thing.
 But we're seeing folks that are choosing to do things that the situation isn't real.
 They're just not happy. They're not happy with their choices. They want to be selfish or self-centered. They want to do something different.
 And so they plug something into trying to make it exist and it doesn't exist.
 So if anybody lives in this, you're looking for a hall pass here, "Yang, get in it for me."
 I'm speaking to the legit situation of codependency. That's the important thing.
 So let's kind of identify some of the main symptoms so that you can help you understand if you're experiencing this.
 I talked about some of them walking on eggshells, apologizing for somebody who was hurting you or feeling bad for somebody who's hurting you.
 But other things would be that big fear of abandonment. Oh my gosh.
 There are so many folks who are scared to death of being abandoned that they can't let go of being codependent because if they did, their worth would tank.
 And they would feel abandon or if the other person left them, what would they ever do? They would be of no value.
 And this is a terrible psychological struggle that somebody experiences. I will tell you, next level life. Next level life, next level life, next level life.
 If anything I am telling you is you are relating to get your butt in to next level life.
 Your root system is the very thing that is screaming to you that if you get abandoned, you have no worth to know value.
 Now for some folks, they've been abandoned. For some folks, they've had a parent or a loved one, leave them abandoned them.
 And what it showed them, especially depending upon the age and all that, I mean it's amazing the level of fear that can grow inside of somebody.
 When what they're convinced of is that they were abandoned and it was their fault.
 I was not good enough for mommy. I was not good enough for daddy to stay.
 I was not good enough for this boyfriend, this girlfriend. I was not good enough for four.
 So quite often you will see in a codependent relationship or a codependent person, I should say, this incredible fear of abandonment.
 Another thing you will see is an incredible lack of personal identity.
 Listen to me, if this is you. Your identity will never ever, ever, ever, ever, ever fully be.
 And any human being ever. Your identity and your worth comes from the one who created you, who loves you, who pursues your heart, who is trying to draw you in closer to himself.
 God is the only one who assigns your worth and your identity as a whole. Now, can you get worth an identity from doing a great job at where you work?
 Sure. But if it is a large amount, it's incorrect. It's wrong. It should never be a big amount.
 Can you get worth an identity from being a mom, a dad? Sure. Absolutely. A husband, a wife, absolutely.
 But it should never, ever, ever, ever be the bulk of either your worth or your identity. It should only be a small portion.
 Another sign of co-dependency is putting other people on pedestals. Woof. Wow. This is a big, consistent thing that we see with co-dependent folks is that somebody is more important than they are.
 Somebody is more valuable than they are. Somebody is so much better than they are. And again, here is the difficult part. How many times can you put somebody who's really unhealthy on a pedestal and believe that they are better than you?
 Why is it that so many people stay in abusive relationships? Because they've been convinced by the taker that they are of no worth if they are not with the taker if they are not giving to the taker.
 There are many women who never leave an abusive relationship because they are convinced that nobody would ever hire them.
 They couldn't make a money on their own. Nobody would ever love them. Nobody would ever want them. So they stay in this ridiculous crappy relationship.
 If you're sitting out there and you're strong and you've never experienced this, please hold judgment. Understand that your root system is considerably different than that person's.
 This isn't something we want to justify any of this. The goal is how do we help somebody.
 If this is you that I'm talking about, how do you recognize your need to be needed? How do we get you to understand that putting people on pedestals is a terrible thing.
 It's unhealthy. How do we understand that when you're struggling to take care of you and find some time to take care of you, that's not healthy?
 And again, I'm not talking about going crazy with this whole self care over a abundant lie that's being told. I'm talking about legitimately taking care of you and making you healthy.
 Right? What if you feel like you are just absolutely lost if you're not in this relationship?
 These are signs that you have to recognize your stuck. You're in it. You're struggling with it. And it's time to do something about it.
 It's time to really recognize go through these aspects and ask yourself, is this me? Now, do we see this in personality styles more than others?
 Yeah, we might see that really the high, high, high, the high, the high, the personality styles especially the high, has a tendency to suffer this.
 Right? Now, I'm not saying that the dees and sees don't, they absolutely do. They definitely do. But folks who are focused on people pleasing can really struggle with this. Folks who have difficulty setting healthy boundaries can really struggle with this.
 Folks that aren't able to end unhealthy relationships. Well, they're most likely going to struggle with this. And which personality styles are going to be more bent towards that.
 Your S personality style, your I personality style. Not saying that you're not going to see that in the DNC personality style.
 I'm just saying that the people people are going to be really more bent towards being in a codependent relationship like this, like this. Now, could the dees and sees being that absisting can lootly, especially if they believe that they have the ability to help somebody overcome.
 If they have the ability to change somebody and yet they run into the same problem over and over again, they're not changing anybody. You're not changing a person in the situation, right? You can't change anybody.
 You can only highly suggest that they change. So when we look at the emotional impact or the psychological impact, something that we have to recognize is how to hoxick and unhealthy.
 This is inside of any relationship.
 When there is a giver and a take or interrelationship, there's never going to be a quality. There's never going to be a great love. Why love? Believe it or not.
 That is a choice. It is not just this crazy fuzzy feeling. That's less than 1% of it. It's a choice. The choice too loved someone, right? The choice too care for somebody.
 When there is heavy toxicity, then it turns from love into toxic codependency. So there's a world of difference of when I am willing to selflessly sacrifice, which is a biblical definition of love. You see that many times,
 and I'm willing to selflessly sacrifice for someone I love, and I do it in a healthy way. It's great. It's fabulous. It's wonderful. It can have great results if I am selflessly sacrificing.
 It's not too attaker who's going to just constantly be taking. That is considerably different than when I find I have to be needed by somebody. And if I am not needed by them, I am not worthy.
 If I find that I am needed by them, then I will selflessly sacrifice to my detriment. I will sacrifice me believing that they are more worthy and belong on a pedestal. And I have to keep giving giving giving and they must keep taking from me so that I can feel worthy.
 That is toxicity. The anxiety that is built around worrying about that other person being afraid of the conflict that may pop up at any moment, that they may blow their litter at any moment.
 Being worried about doing the wrong thing, saying the wrong thing, acting the wrong way, not being the right person, not doing things the way that you should. It's a men's.
 That anxiety tends to live in that that codependent person. The level of depression, the level of guilt in shame, guilt in shame is something I have struggled with my whole life because so much of it was poured into me to say that I am supposed to be full of guilt in shame.
 Even though I am like this has nothing to do with me, but it was pounded so hard that I kept it. And it's something I have to deal with and overcome my whole life.
 It's something that I have to tackle immediately and use the tools that we talk about. You know, you do the things next level that we talk about to overcome it is quickly as possible.
 And by using those tools, it is given me incredible personal strength. So understanding the level of guilt and depression that it is immense for the person who is struggling in this type of relationship.
 So on top of all of this, possibly one of the worst aspects is this loss of self. You lose you, you lose your authentic self. You lose the true version of you.
 And I'm going to tell you that this is not an easy recovery. We're going to talk about some steps to recover from this that is all going to have to be choice.
 Here's what I want you to know. It's not easy. You don't just find you in a couple of seconds, right? It doesn't just happen overnight.
 It is a process of discovering your authentic self. It is a process of discovering why you're here, not the what. Again, we talked about this in the last episode of I think it was the last episode of understanding highest personality styles about how introspective a highest is.
 And one of the things I talked about is how many people in the next level of life understand the what they just don't understand the why a lot of folks don't even understand the what they can't see the what.
 The what is super important but why it exists is way more important in your decision making process and helping you to get to better decisions, making better decisions.
 So you're going to have to come to a place of being done with losing self.
 Wanting to know who you authentically are wanting to know you know who you're made to be.
 So I'm going to tell you that the first step in overcoming this is a self awareness.
 You've got to get to a place where you recognize the things that we've talked about and there's more things again. I can't go through everything in this period of time, but we've hit some pretty heavy duty things and some pretty obvious things that you can probably relate to right now or if you know somebody get them this episode.
 Right, if this is relating to you know why that you you know somebody who's struggling with this get this to them, but I also want you to hear me it's possible that you.
 I did not realize that I was struggling with this stuff so many years ago and when I discovered it when God made it abundantly clear.
 It was like a just a massive tsunami of emotions because I knew it at that point.
 I recognized all the things that I had been doing and I was able to go yep I've been stuck right there the whole time. I could see it all at that point.
 So self awareness is massive. I am idealing with any of these things. I'm not talking about victim mentality. Victim mentality is a colossal waste of time.
 Ask yourself are you are you experiencing any of the things I've talked about give yourself the permission to do some self reflection.
 Give yourself permission to look inside of you some of you all come from backgrounds where man you were preached that like crazy that looking at you is just totally selfish and I agree in so many ways.
 But that's not what we're talking about here. We're literally talking about understanding you.
 Not being a victim. Not having all of your identity wrapped up in you but instead taking a hard look and suffering, reflecting on who you are.
 What you're experiencing. What you're current status in relationships or a relationship.
 What are you doing for personal growth? Is there any personal growth? If there's not why not? What are the most painful things that I have heard?
 And it's so painful for me because I get it and I hate it. As I've heard people say, well I'm not worth the next level of life.
 My spouse is but I'm not worth that. We shouldn't spend money on me first stuff. We shouldn't do stuff for me.
 You know my spouse should go through that but I shouldn't. Oh for love. That's so painful to hear. You need to understand you are worth it.
 You are worth life change. You are worth getting to know who you truly are.
 Many people today aren't living well because they're stuck in painful patterns of anxiety, fear, negative self-talk and other struggles that keep happening.
 That maybe you and you wish it would stop. You may lash out of people. You may shut down in conversations. You may feel like you always have to defend yourself and just not feel good enough.
 You may even be losing trust in yourself. Seeking counseling advice from friends or tons of self-help books aren't helping.
 And not much about you is changing for the better. The thing is we're blind to what's causing these patterns and struggles.
 And that's why we carry them with us wherever we go. But when we get clarity on the why and grow awareness of our emotions and thinking, that's when great change happens.
 And that is why we created next level life. If you feel stuck in patterns, you can't change.
 Go to crissacrittle.com/nextlevellife. That's crissacrittle.com/nextlevellife.
 [Music]
 So self-awareness I would say is probably one of the top pieces. The second piece is an absolute must.
 You've got to get to a place where God is more important than everything in your life.
 Whether you're a codependent or you're super healthy, I don't care.
 God Almighty, King of the universe, pursuer of your heart, the one who holds your eternity in his hands.
 He has to become more important than everything in your life. Every human being, everything you own, your job, your business, whatever it is.
 When he becomes more important than everything else, then you will begin to recognize that your worth comes from him.
 When you search his scriptures for what he says your worth is and how he treats his beloved and the things that he does for his beloved,
 you will be amazed at learning what your true worth is.
 You know, so amazing how many people talk about the inequality in scripture and you have to recognize that is never God.
 God is never looking at men and women and saying they must be unequal.
 Instead, he is trying his best to help us to choose that we be equal.
 Many times scripture reports on things that were happening during time periods, but it doesn't mean that God was okay with it.
 So if you look at God, if you take a look at Yeshua when He rose, during the first century, a woman's testimony in society was no good.
 A woman couldn't testify in court.
 Women were thought lowly of, but not by God, by humans, by people, by selfish people.
 Who did Yeshua reveal Himself to when He came out of the grave?
 The first were women.
 The very testimony that people could not believe because they couldn't accept it.
 There are so many aspects. If you look at how Yeshua treated women, now Yeshua's Hebrew and His actual name,
 if you look at how He treated women, you'll be blown away at the equality that we see.
 God loves you.
 God cares about you. God thinks you're precious. He thinks you're worth going to the cross for.
 He thinks you're worth pursuing like crazy even in spite of our own selfish ways, your own selfish ways, to convince you that He's worth everything.
 So God has to be the most important in your life.
 And if you want information on how to get there, let us know.
 You would be honored and blessed to help podcast at Chrissacrote.com. Let us know.
 Another thing you need to do, this is a tough one guys. This is a tough one.
 You've got to get to a place of learning how to set healthy boundaries.
 For me, there are walls, boundaries, and healthy boundaries.
 Walls are the things that you build up in two seconds.
 You can build a wall so fast and everybody is walled out and you are walled in.
 The problem with that is you're left with your own thoughts and that's it.
 It's incredibly unhealthy and incredibly toxic.
 Boundaries are those things you think you put up that are keeping people at bay and controlling your manipulative people can just crush them on heartbeat.
 The healthy boundaries, the boundary you put up with an individual could be with more than one, obviously.
 But it doesn't allow them to get to you in a toxic way.
 So you could put up a boundary with one person and not have that same boundary with ten other people because they're not toxic.
 At least they're not toxic to you, they're not unhealthy to you.
 And so when you put that healthy boundary up, you keep that distance even if that means you must leave a room, leave a conversation, do something to get away from the specific situation that's happening in that moment.
 It's important.
 Once again, one of the biggest consequences of a codependent person is the lack of healthy boundaries.
 Another way is to find help.
 To get coaching, to get support groups, to make sure that you're spending time with people who care about healing you.
 Not in a codependent way, but somebody who actually knows what they're doing.
 Somebody who has the tools to help you overcome this, to make right decisions, to put yourself in a healthier place, teaching you how to do healthy boundaries, teaching you how to care about you, teaching you how to make God more important than anything else in your life.
 So you've got to try and find a coach. Somebody who can guide you through this journey.
 Again, you know, I've mentioned next level of life many times.
 It is a powerful, powerful event that people experience great freedom in.
 The people experience the ability to make changes in their life. And so we would love to be that coach, that guide on this journey to help you get to this place.
 So with that being said, let me make a small transition to leaders.
 Leaders, you may be seeing this in your team and your business.
 You may be seeing people who need to be needed.
 Maybe seeing somebody who is creating situations so that you need them.
 Sometimes we see some of the most toxic team members are folks that believe that you can't get rid of them.
 Right? Now, that could be a fine line between codependency and control and manipulation.
 It could be either one of those. It's a difficult thing. You have to find out what's their motivation behind it.
 The motivation is control. You got your answer.
 If it's somebody with a great heart, caring spirit, then it very well could be codependency.
 But you need to take the things that you're hearing today and ask yourself, is there somebody on your team that needs help?
 So what does it look like to be that caring leader who steps in? I'm not telling you you get all crazy into somebody's personal life.
 I'm just asking what does it look like to care enough to see if you can help.
 Right?
 Well, folks, I want you to remember something that I think is vitally important.
 You are worthy of a healthy fulfilling relationship, relationships.
 You're worthy of a life that's defined by God's aspirations for you. God's desires for you.
 You're worthy of a life that involves your own dreams.
 You're worthy of not losing yourself.
 You're worthy of no-wing your authentic self.
 Please embrace self-awareness.
 Please focus on setting those healthy boundaries. Please prioritize your wellbeing.
 And in all of this, please focus on making God number one in your life most important.
 More important than anything else.
 Now, I can't stress this enough. We would love to hear from you, your stories, your insights, your questions, your struggles.
 Whatever it is, we would love for you to share those.
 So please feel free to share them with us at podcast@christacrittle.com.
 If you need help, reach out.
 Please reach out.
 Our goal is to help as many people as we possibly can get to incredible freedom.
 So let us know podcast@christacrittle.com.
 Well, folks, that's all the time we have for today.
 I hope this information has helped you.
 You know somebody that needs to hear this.
 Get them this episode.
 You know somebody that needs life change.
 Get them this episode.
 If you would do us a huge favor,
 so that we can help a lot more people get their lives changed.
 Would you do us a favor and write and review this on iTunes or whatever.
 Platform you're listening to.
 So that we can give this message out and help more people.
 Well, as always, take this information,
 change your leadership, change your business,
 change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]