 How to discern opportunities from distractions in business that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardos Show where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. I always wanted for those of you that remember Paul Harvey. I always want to go
 always what I do the good day, but I think that's probably like 10 of you out there that remember Paul Harvey.
 Hey folks today we're talking about and that was a distraction right there. We're talking about
 distractions. We're talking about opportunities in business. How to discern those. This is very important
 topic for a lot of you that are in leadership or that are business owners. You know what? This is
 could also relate to a bunch of you that may be team members and can get distracted or feel like you're
 searching for opportunities outside of what you're doing. The thing that we want to talk about
 today is how to discern the difference between an opportunity or something that would be a
 distraction or at least to take a hard look at what we think is an opportunity and ask the question
 is it solid? You know some of you may want to acquire a business or some of you may want to start a
 franchise and become an entrepreneur. Some of you may want to add a new revenue stream to your company. These
 are these are things or create a new division. These are things that people come to me all the time with
 and ask me how do I do it. And a lot of times they've not gained almost every time. They've not gained
 enough perspective on the front side to discover if what they're about to do is a smart thing.
 I'm talking about lots of leaders, lots of business owners. I get this all the time, especially when a
 leader or a business owner is being really successful at what they're doing, then what can come in
 very quickly is I need to do something else. I can tell you, I have tons of those ideas myself. I currently
 own four businesses. I have plenty of opportunities of things that I can do in different directions.
 I could start more businesses. There's other people's businesses. I want to start for them and have them
 run it. There's all kinds of things I can do, but it doesn't mean that it's the right thing to do.
 And it doesn't mean that I'm actually evaluating it in a way that would make it a good or a bad decision.
 That's the key here. I've had many business owners that have wanted to start a brand new business.
 You know, they're doing this thing over here and maybe something comes up in the business. Like,
 oh, I can start that as a business over here and they go after it and it takes the business. I've had many
 that have wanted to create a new revenue line inside of the business. I've had many leaders that have
 wanted to create new products, new ideas. And instead of gaining tons of quality perspective,
 they will start it thinking that because it sounds like a good idea and it really looks like a really
 good idea, they will start it and not realize all the things that can cause it to fail. So today we're
 going to be talking about an evaluation framework. All right. So it's going to be something that
 you or anybody else can take and make great decisions on whether or not the thing that you're looking
 at is an opportunity or a distraction. Now, I am not. This framework does not tell you whether or not
 your opportunity is a good opportunity. It's just whether or not you're looking at it in the right
 way and so it'll help you to discern if you're wasting your time and money on a distraction or if you
 found a golden opportunity go after. Again, I can't guarantee you that the specific thing that you're
 coming up with, you know, the the crocheted covers for bicycle seats is a great business
 opportunity, but at least I can help you to find out whether or not it's a distraction. So this episode
 is centered around the action steps you can take starting right now. But before we dive into that,
 today's episode is brought to you by the next level of leadership live event. Folks, you've got to
 get to this. What are the things that are distracting you in your business and your leadership right now?
 What are the things that are keeping you from hitting your goals? Maybe you sprint through your days
 exhausted, balancing the workload of 10 people. Maybe you're always putting out fires rather than having
 time to strategize. Maybe your revenue expectations seem out of reach. Maybe you think that you've
 got everything handled and you need to start something brand spaken new. Get the tools to solve these
 frustrations and lead your team to success in 2019 at the next level of leadership live event.
 Folks, this is three days of transformational information. Three days of tools to change your leadership,
 to change your business and be incredibly more successful. This is stuff I've been doing for decades.
 Come learn from the folks who are implementing this stuff. One of the great things we have at this event
 is a success panel of our clients that are doing the very stuff that we teach. Here's just some of the
 transformations that they have received. 8,169% net profit increase in one year in one year, one year.
 Gained 30 hours a week back. 30 hours that that leader is able to lead their team to success on.
 46% grows profit increase in one year, 46%. 25% team productivity increase in 8 months.
 These are real transformations. These are the things that people are getting from the stuff that
 we teach. You're listening to the show for a reason because you know this is good information that can
 change the way you do your business. The change the way you lead. Change the way you operate. So
 right now you can save $100 on each ticket. So don't miss it. Get $100 off each ticket that you purchase.
 The sale ends January 29th. So go to Chrissacorda.com/events and get your tail to this event to get the
 results you want in your leadership and in your business. Chrissacorda.com/events. Now let's talk about this
 evaluation framework. The first thing that you need to know is that with any opportunity that comes
 your way. I don't care what it is. If it's a new business opportunity. If it's an expansion of
 what you're currently doing. If it's a new product line no matter what it is. The first thing that you need
 to know is to not get emotionally attached to the opportunity. Now as I say that some of you out there
 are probably going, "Oh yeah, of course, Chrissacorda makes it." No, you do not understand how quickly
 somebody becomes emotionally attached. Chrissacorda. We got to do this thing. We need to have this
 and whatever it is. Next thing you know, they're already 90% down the road of doing the thing. We've not
 even gained quality perspective yet. I'll never forget. I had a guy reach out to me once who was like,
 "Cris, I make the best tacos." I think he was in Southern California. He was like, "I make the best
 tacos dude." And I need to find some angel investor to buy me a, I think it was a food truck he was
 looking to do. This is well-before-food trucks popular. He's like, "I need to drop a couple hundred thousand
 dollars on this thing." And I'm like, "Do you have any money?" He's like, "Nope." I'm like, "So you're
 just going to go into debt for this thing?" "Yep." And I'm like, "Rung let it go, man." He's like, "Cris,
 my tacos are the best." They're amazing. And I'm like, "Well, I'm not going to suggest that."
 I know that your tacos are greater, at least I assume they are. You're telling me that they are.
 But what's happened is because that person was so emotionally attached to how great their tacos were.
 They were ready to go well into debt and not having sales on these tacos yet to go well into debt
 to have people feel the same way about their tacos. Guys, that is not the right way to go about it.
 So what I suggested to him is I'm like, "Man, if they're that great, simple process. Go out and get a push
 cart. Get one of those little food push carts. Go into areas, set up your little umbrella,
 and start cranking out tacos and see how people respond. Let's make a name. Let's get some actual
 money before we do this. If they're so great, you don't have to rush into this. Don't get emotionally
 attached. Go prove that this thing can actually work. Let's call proof of concept, right?
 Now most people would say, "Well, I've already got it. All my friends think my tacos are great.
 Okay, fantastic. How many of your friends have paid for them?" Right? So, of course your friends are
 going to say they're great. They're probably getting them for free. So do not become emotionally attached
 to whatever the opportunity is. In fact, work hard to not become emotionally attached. Once you do,
 then unfortunately you're moving emotionally in the direction of the opportunity without gaining quality
 perspective. It also causes you to be attached to the opportunity. So if your opportunity fails,
 what happens? It takes you forever to shoot the thing. Right? There are sometimes something is
 failing. You've got to pull the trigger and get out. I can't tell you how many great cooks that I have
 known of people that, you know, somebody's got a mom that's a phenomenal cook and everybody says,
 you need to open up a restaurant. She goes $300,000 in debt. And because everybody believes this is
 the thing to do, she's emotionally attached. She gets into this thing and then nobody shows up
 because nobody knows she doesn't have any understanding of marketing. Nobody shows up and they keep the doors
 up and going further and further into debt because they're so emotionally attached to this great
 opportunity. Many times it causes bankruptcy. Many times it causes, you know, you have to go do
 something else to pay out the loans. And so it's just not worth it. Regardless of what the thing is,
 don't get emotionally attached. So what does being emotionally attached look like? Anything
 that is a must. We must do this. We have no choice. We've got to do this. Nope. You're emotionally
 attached. When it comes to opportunities, there's never a must. Next thing is not being able to be
 objective. If you can't be objective about the opportunity, such as looking at something and going,
 you know, at that piece of there, really kind of sucks. That's not good. We shouldn't do that.
 Instead, everything is, no, it's all great. It's all perfect. Everything's going to work out.
 Everything's fine. We're not getting any great quality perspective. Everything's just fantastic.
 You're not able to be objective as you take a look at this thing. The inability to walk away
 or call it quits if it's failed. Feeling like if it fails, it will be a personal failure.
 Feeling the need to make it a priority over other things in life. This is a big one, guys. And I'm
 going to talk about this in the other steps of how much people make the great opportunity and much
 bigger priority than anything else. And it takes everything else. If it is a passion project,
 I am not in any way. Shape or form telling you not to do your passions. But here's what I want you to
 understand. If it is a passion project, you're already emotionally attached. There's lots of things
 that I'm passionate about that I don't do because instead I'm very objective about it. And I look
 at it and go, yes it is, but that would be a distraction. I would love to do that, but that would be a
 distraction. So if it is a passion project, remember you need to back out of that and focus on what
 is the concept of. I wait the opportunity, not the passion. But this will be so great. I get to do
 the thing I love. Doesn't matter is the opportunity good because of the opportunity is not solid.
 You're not going to get to do what you're passionate about. Number two, look at every single opportunity
 as an outside investor. I can't tell you how many times during a strap plan that we are working through
 the business, discovering problems and looking at opportunities that we will stop and say, okay,
 stop for just a second. Here's what I want you to do. Look at this thing as an outside investor.
 If you were going to purchase this business, if you were going to, you know, we're looking at
 the whole company or something or looking at a division and I'll say, if you were going to purchase this
 company, what do you see in that division? What do you see in that area? What do you see in that product line?
 And then all of a sudden it is so much easier for the leaders to go, oh, yeah, I wouldn't do that.
 Or no, I would fire the CEO and since I'm the CEO, I'd be the one who got fired.
 They are all of a sudden able to start seeing problems and opportunities from a different perspective
 because one year and investor, it changes the way you look at the opportunity. Now ever since I was
 a kid, I wanted to be in real estate. And someone around 2001, 2002, Dave Ramsey and I were driving
 to an event in Louisville, Kentucky. Him and I just drive it in the car, talking through stuff.
 At that point, he owned a lot of properties and at that point, I think I owned one. So I
 had only built one property at that point. I'd only had one real estate transaction at that point. And so
 as we're driving in the car, I'm like, how in the world are you able to just sell stuff? So, you know,
 I'm getting from the expert on the real estate, help me with this because I'm moving in this direction.
 I'm going to buy up some real estate. I'm going to do some stuff. And he said, Chris, you got to realize
 it's sticks. It's rocks. It's sticks. It's she rock. And I'm like, but it's the thing that you
 purchased, you know, but it's yours. And he's like, yeah, I could always get another one. And that
 changed my mindset going into buying real estate. It changed the way I looked at real estate. I stopped
 looking at it as something I wanted to buy. And I was going to love, this is my house, this is great.
 The concept was to either buy it and rent it or buy it and flip it. But I'm supposed to be making money
 and so if I look at it from the eyes of, but it's my thing, then I don't see the problems in the
 opportunities in it. If I step back and look at it like they did like an outside investor, hey,
 it sticks. It's just sheet rock, man. You can always get another one. That caused me to really take a
 different tack on how I did real estate. The real estate that I've bought up, everything I bought up has been
 unless it was a personal house has been around 70 cents on the dollar cheaper. Why? Because I was able to
 walk away. I wasn't emotionally attached. I was looking at it from an outside investor perspective. And I
 I literally am an outside investor when it comes to real estate. So folks, we've put together three
 areas for this for you to look at. What to look for in a current business you're acquiring? What to look for?
 If you're planning a startup and what to look for if the opportunity is within your business.
 Now we don't have time to go through every scenario on the show today. So you can go to
 ChrisLecristo.com/309 to get a PDF download of the list for each scenario. That's ChrisLecristo.com/309.
 Number three, discovering how much energy is it going to take to make this thing work? This is a big
 piece, guys. This is something that a lot of leaders and a lot of business owners do not get.
 When you start something new, no matter what it is. So if you're a team member out there,
 if you're somebody who is not a business owner and you're a leader or a team member and you're wanting to
 start a business, you have to understand it takes a lot of energy to get that thing up and running.
 Well, no kidding Chris. No, I don't think you understand. To put energy into something for any
 long period of time means that you have to take it from somewhere else. So let me give you an
 example. I want a great thing about my journey. Whenever he would do a lot of his writing,
 he would do it first thing in the morning. Super early. He had a program, you know, he may still have it.
 But he used to have like a five o'clock AM club because it would get people moving. You get going,
 which is great, which is fantastic. The thing you have to understand is you don't just start working
 at 5 am if you've been working at 7 am or 8 am or whatever time you go to work. If you back it up and
 start working three hours earlier, guess what? Something else has to give in. Maybe you have to go to
 better earlier. Maybe you have to shift something around. Maybe you change your morning routine. Obviously,
 you're changing your morning routine. So the point that I'm making here is to do that work at 5 am,
 something has to change. You know, getting your buttonbed heck of a lot earlier so that you can actually
 get up early enough to do the work starting at 5 am and then you got to go do the rest of your work.
 So now take a look at what if we were implementing a new product or we were doing a new division. Let's
 say we were starting a new whole new division inside of the business. The moment you take any energy
 from what is currently making you money in the business and shifted to the other area, the first
 area starts to suffer. I promise you it's going to impact in effect the area that is making you money.
 For some reason and I don't understand why we think this, but we think if we are doing really good
 with the business, if we're making plenty of money, if things seem to be going well, we think,
 well, we have plenty of capacity to do something else. What you have to realize is,
 is that whatever is making the business successful right now, it's happening because of the energy
 that's going into the current business. So unless you've got people sitting around with nothing to do,
 the moment you pull their energy to do something else, they're going to have to slack their energy
 on the thing they're currently doing. So for me, you have to discover what's it going to take to
 make this other thing happen. So for example, if I'm starting a new division here,
 I am not using for the most part the people that are focused on the things that make us successful right now.
 If it's going to be me as the business owner doing the new division or starting the new division,
 then I'm going to make sure if I am currently a champion, the champion, part of the
 champions that are making the business work right now, I'm going to make sure that I put somebody
 in place to take the energy that I've been giving to the current business model. Then I'm going to ask the
 question, if I shift the business owner to CEO roll over to this other area, is that even sustainable,
 of course it's not sustainable. I can't keep being the energy for the new area. I'm going to have to
 raise up a champion over it and help them to be successful. Now those are just the beginning phases,
 there's a whole ton more than that, but we're just looking at right now the energy process. If I've got a
 champion in place that's taking over the stuff that I was doing or at least giving the energy to the
 area that I was giving energy to and I'm building up or raising up a champion in the area that I'm
 now giving energy to, then I can stay being the business owner, the CEO, and still lead the business
 as a whole because I've not lost energy from anywhere. Therefore, if I go beyond me and let's say let's
 use for example Joel here. Joel, when I hired Joel, Joel Forger, I told him to listen, you're going to
 have to wear many hats in your role because we're building this thing. There's a few of us on the
 team at the time, we're going to build this thing, we're all going to wear many hats and then as we grow,
 we're going to start bringing in people to take a bunch of the stuff off of us. As I've grown
 an area next level mastermind, Joel happens to be over that area as well as a couple other things that he's
 doing and that is something that has continued to grow very well. Well, here's what I have to do as a CEO,
 as a business owner, I have to look at his plate and make sure he never gets stuck in the leadership
 crazy cycle, a low killing leadership crazy cycle. If you haven't done it, you gotta do this. So for me,
 I have to take a look at what he's doing and say, I'm going to have to replace some of the stuff with new
 energy, with a new champion so that he can stay focused on the much bigger piece or putting his energy
 into next level mastermind and growing that area because if I don't, then I've got somebody who keeps
 trying to do everything and can't do it and eventually gets overwhelmed and then we're rushing
 to try and solve the problem. So you have to take a look and say whatever the thing is that I'm
 want to do, whether it's a product line, whether it's a new division, whether it's another business,
 business owner is listening to me. Don't go start another business, don't go do it until you walk
 through at the very minimum, all the stuff I'm talking about today because starting another business,
 this is a guy who owns four businesses telling you this, starting another business takes way more energy than
 you possibly think right at this moment. In your mind, it's no, we've been great, we've been successful,
 look at how good I'm doing. I don't even have to do that much right now. I promise you, it is not as easy
 as you think and some of you are going, well, I know it's going to be tough. No, it's going to be way
 tough for them then. So don't do that until you've walked through all of the things that I'm talking
 about right now. So number four, you have to learn how to hold yourself accountable. A lot of times,
 folks will come to being a Christmas board. I know everything about my team, I know everything about
 the product we sell, I know everything about our business, I'm bored, I need to do something else.
 I can tell you, almost never. As a matter of fact, I'm saying almost never because I can't think
 of a time, but I literally can't think of a single time that a leader has come to me and said,
 I need to do something else because I'm bored because I got the business down and there's nothing
 else I can do in this where I could not come up with a ton of ways that they do not know their business
 completely. So here's what I want you to understand. One thing is get going really well,
 we have a tendency to think, especially those of you that are hiding. Listen to me now.
 We have a tendency to think, oh, I've got this. Everything's going well. Now I'm bored.
 So I need to do something else. You know how to run the business the way that you're currently
 running it. That does not mean that you know the business itself completely. That does not mean
 that you're hitting every opportunity. That does not mean that you're doing everything to grow your
 team, to make them successful, to make great leaders, to make great team members. That does not
 mean you're making all the right decisions inside of your business. Trust me on this. You have to ask
 yourself, am I wanting to do something new because I'm bored? If you're bored, that means there are
 probably a ton of things you're missing inside of the business. So one of the things again, I
 help people through a lot in Stratpline, is to see all the things that are holding them back.
 So somebody might be doing great. Hey, listen, we got a million, two million, three million, five million
 on the bottom line. Things are great. What do we do now? And as we walk through the process, they start
 seeing all of the things that aren't operating at the optimal. They start seeing all of the revenue
 opportunities that they didn't think of, that they hadn't, you know, seen before. They start learning
 a ton of stuff that makes them incredibly busy going forward. So this bored leader or this board
 leadership team or this board business owner, all of a sudden is going, okay. So now I'm busy because they
 now have laser focus on things that they just weren't seeing or they have laser focus on making the
 people inside of the business better than they are right now or they have laser focus on taking
 advantage of opportunities that are inside the current business. You don't have to go start a new
 business. I'm showing all kinds of opportunities that you have already inside of your business.
 So you have to hold yourself accountable and ask the question, is this a distraction because of board?
 Is this a distraction because I feel like I've got this? And you know, what else is there to
 learn about my business? I've had salespeople that have come through and said, "Ah, I know everything
 about selling this product. We sit down for 30 minutes and it's like, okay, so there's a lot that I
 could do here." So ask yourself an objective question, is this a distraction? Number five,
 does it align with your current, strap plan or strategy? Now for those that have come through
 in strap plan, there is a massive program that we put together that we help them to now walk out
 for the next six to 12 months. So part of that process is getting them to be laser focused on what
 they're doing. Many, many, many, many, many, many, many businesses, many leaders are operating
 with the shock and approach. And they're getting stuff done, they're successful, they're making things
 happen, but it is literally holding the business back. So one of the things that we do is we take the
 business and we point it in a unified direction. Let me say that again, a unified direction is what the
 business needs to be the most successful, possibly again. What does that look like?
 Everybody is heading in the same direction. It doesn't mean everybody's doing the same thing. It doesn't
 mean that you don't have multiple product lines. It doesn't mean that you don't have multiple divisions.
 The point that I'm making is, is we set a destination for the whole business to move in and everybody
 has their part in what they're doing to get there. So when it comes to new product lines, when it comes to
 new divisions, when it comes to new businesses, the thing that I always ask is, does this align with your current
 strap plan or strategy, if you've not done strap line? Does it align with your mission statement?
 Now your mission statement at the very basic is your purpose for showing up every single day.
 Does it align with your vision where you're headed? If it aligns with all of this,
 now we can start working through the previous four points that I've made today. If it does not align,
 why in the world are we doing it? It has got to be a distraction. It has got to be something or you just
 feel like it's the right thing to do because you're bored or because it's just a good idea and you
 think that you should do it because it's a good idea. Folks, if it does not align with your mission,
 your vision, your strap plan or strategy, and even your core values. If it does not align with all of those
 things, this is a distraction. There's no point in doing this. This is going to pull you away from the
 thing that is making money for you and cause you to put a bunch of energy somewhere else. And if the
 other pieces fall in line as well, being emotionally attached to the opportunity, not looking at it as an
 outside investor, not understanding how much energy it's going to take and not holding yourself accountable,
 if those things are not in place, then guess what? The distraction is going to cause not only the
 new idea to fail, but it's really going to cause the current money making product or company that you
 have tank as well. So before you get lost in any opportunities, thinking that it's a great thing,
 put those five things in place. And again, if you're struggling in your business or you know that
 there's more growth in your business that you can capitalize on, go to Chrissacrido.com/strapplan and check
 out our four day crazy intense event. This is a private event. It's not a workshop. It's not with multiple
 businesses. It's in depth with your leadership team and me. We spend four days together going through
 all the things that are holding you back. Once again, that's way more important than finding some
 magic bill that puts money on the top line. I can promise you. Because when we discover all of those things,
 then we focus on all the revenue opportunities you're currently missing out on. The average company
 going through discovers a six to nine-month actionable plan. We put it all together with who's going to
 do what? Time lines all this crazy stuff plus the new revenue opportunities. Six to nine months worth
 of walking this out because you're still running your business as well. This isn't like all of a
 sudden you stop doing what you're doing. This is added to what you're doing to become incredibly
 successful on solving all the things that are holding you back. And on top of that, the revenue opportunities
 that you can gather in the next 12 months. The average company coming through, we've find
 $2.1 million dollars that they were not planning on in the next 12 months. The next 12 months. If they
 fix the things that we've discovered that are holding them back, they can gain $2.1 million in the next
 12 months. So go to crissacrote.com/stratplan to learn more about that two day.
 Crissacrote.com/stratplan. Also, don't forget, we've created a download so you can go through these five
 ways of discovering whether or not this opportunity is an opportunity or a distraction. You can keep it at your
 desk in your car, on your mirror, it does about or you can go through this process and make sure you're
 making smart decisions and getting much further down the path that everybody else who keeps doing the
 same thing over and over again, which is going, this is a great idea. Let's just do it. So download that
 at crissacrote.com/309 that's crissacrote.com/309 and get the PDF of all the five things that I've talked
 about today. But folks, as always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business,
 change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]