 Leading yourself better. What does that mean? And why does it matter? That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are. Welcome to the show. Today's quote is,
 he who knows others is learned, he who knows himself is wise. And thank you, Lousy, or I don't know,
 I've heard of that name pronounced so many different ways. I don't even know how to pronounce it,
 but dude, we appreciate the quote. If you do not recognize the sound of that voice,
 today Joel is joining us on the show. Hey, glad to be here. Is there any of you that little applause?
 Yay. For those of you that don't know, Joel is the head client coach for our next
 level mastermind program. He's the next level of the facilitator and he is the head of our sales.
 And if you're really new to the podcast and don't know anything about Joel, before coming here,
 he ran his own marketing business as well as led in a ward winning team at the Pentagon. So he and I are
 going to be talking about how to lead yourself better. So welcome Joel. Thank you. Glad to be back on the show.
 It's good to have you here. Thank you. It's been so long since I've seen it. Nice to traverse down stairs
 and come into this foresighted room. Come into the studio and talk a little more because we never talk
 absolutely. So leading yourself better. That's our our discussion for today. That's a topic for today.
 And that's also a lesson that you're going to be teaching the next level of leadership live events.
 In May, the idea of leading yourself better. What does that mean? And why does that matter to our
 listeners? You know, so at the end of the day, this is about if you can't lead yourself well,
 you should really look and say, how well am I leading other people? Because it starts with yourself.
 It's like the greater you can point yourself toward a destination and lead yourself to achieve it,
 overcome what holds you back, learn, grow your capacity, meaning your ability to do
 the better you're going to be able to lead other people. Because when you get in there and start
 leading yourself, you fail, right? You learn stuff, you learn what it's really like and it also helps you
 lead other people better as well. Yeah, and I think a lot of people listening are like,
 well, I lead myself every day. I've been doing it my whole life. But that's not what we're talking about.
 Is it? It's not just the going through your emotions. It's a heck of a lot bigger than that.
 When you really look at how much do you spend your time being think about how much time you spend your time
 being more reactive than proactive? Leading means you're taking yourself somewhere. You have this
 is where I want to be. This is what it looks like in the end. This is where I'm now taking myself and I'm
 designing my day. I'm designing my week. I'm designing my life. I'm course correcting necessarily.
 That's what we talk about is being this level of really personal responsibility for yourself and trying to really
 achieve what you're after. I love that descriptor of design. It's not allowing life to happen.
 It's not you get up. You do the same thing that you've been doing forever because you have been doing it
 forever. You've got to work. You just get through the day. You may do a thousand things. But again,
 it's not by design. It's usually by reaction. One of the things that people need to know
 best about themselves or what is the benefits of leading themselves personally. So the benefits are
 you are actually going to achieve. Look at the emotional benefits. You're going to have more contentment.
 You're going to end up with more freedom in your life. You're going to end up looking back and saying,
 man, look at 2018 in what I accomplished. So let's play this forward. It's the beginning of 2019.
 You're going to look up at the end of 2019. You were probably going to feel better. You're going to
 look back and say, what did I do with my year with myself personally, with my family, with leading my team,
 in my business because you look at a plan and you can actually go back and look and say, this is what I did.
 So I'll look at this sometimes. There's probably some of you who are struggling to think about,
 what did I do yesterday that was meaningful? That should be an indicator of, man, I can do a better
 job leading my life with more intentionality. I think it's a funny because around here, now everybody
 the year goes by fast for everybody for us, it is lightning. There's so much that we accomplish in a
 years time and the thing I love is we just a month ago, a month ago, a few weeks ago, as
 but yes, I remember a month ago that we had our Christmas party and we go through all of the highlights
 of the things that we accomplished through the year and so much of it is obviously life change and
 what we've been able to do not only for ourselves but for our clients and their team members and we got
 impacts from clients, their team members affecting other people. I was just phenomenal to look at
 all the things that we've done and I remember decades ago being a part of teams where it was like, hey,
 well, this is the numbers. Hey, we accomplished these numbers because they don't really recognize
 what they did in a year's time. It's that same concept as an individual like you're saying that if I
 plan my year, then when I get to the end of the year, you know, that the emotional excitement that you're
 talking about are freedom, the contentment that I can actually look back and go, yep, that went
 the way I wanted it to instead of getting to the end of the year and going, what in the world happened.
 There's something that I've been talking a lot in next-to-the-life events recently with folks about.
 We have a couple of options of these life paths. One of them is a path towards success,
 which doesn't mean the plan is always going to work out perfectly, but you're focused on planning
 a goal of vision of where you want to be, actually being intentional with what you're doing in your
 day, driving your time, looking at your plan and saying, "Now, what am I going to go do?" So for instance,
 Saturday morning, I sat down, my wife and I sat down with both of our goals for 2019,
 and we started taking action steps. We went to our schedules and we literally started scheduling
 when things are going to happen. And let me jump in on this because I don't think people understand
 when you say we sat down with our goals. Well, we teach about goals is not the same thing that most
 people do. Here's 10 things I want to accomplish in 2019. You literally have your goals broken out
 by every area of your life. Every single area of the will of life. So use the will of life as a
 tool for us to say, "This covers our life goals, you have your overall life goals, but you have for
 2019 every single area of the will of life goals later." Exactly. Which is the, I must speak more to this,
 as we talk about this on this conversation today. But those goals are a vision for 2019. This is where
 we want to be. This is what we want to have accomplished. Well, I can look at that. And now I can back
 out of that and determine, what are the action steps that I need to do? What needs to be planned now?
 What needs to be scheduled now? What conversations do we need to have? That's all strategy.
 That's literally putting together a plan, a simple plan of being proactive and intentional.
 So you can actually create what you want in your life, not just react or end up at the end of 2019
 on a default or accidental life pathway. And it's like, "Well, I hope these things happen."
 Or you reach the year and it's like, "I'm not sure what I did or I did a great job helping everyone else
 achieve their priorities and what they want to do in my family or in my life or on my team.
 What about you? How are you leading yourself?" And this is just a tiny piece of what you're going to
 be teaching. Absolutely. But it's so powerful to see how this sets up everything.
 So this can be a game changer right here. Let alone the rest of it.
 Yeah, because I get your goals. You turn your goals into me as well.
 Which includes all of that stuff. And in there, you've got your parenting goals. You've got your
 marriage goals. The things to grow all this. And the thing I love because I'm assuming I'm going to be
 part of it is you have the personal fun goals like golf. You know, I'm going to play this many rounds of
 golf in the year of 2019. Exactly. Because it's not just about getting your family solid or
 growing your family and growing your spiritual life and growing your marriage, that's all
 really good solid work. But you also need the place side as well. Absolutely. It's good to see that
 in all of this sets up all the bigger pieces that you're going to be teaching on. What is it that keeps
 leaders from leading themselves? Leaders in side to lack of awareness because they don't think a lot
 of people actually realize they need to lead themselves. Sure. I mean, it's you look at awareness.
 It's a lack of planning. But a lot of it comes down to things. Take for instance, business.
 Business is a lot of reaction. A business can be a lot of what you choose to put on yourself
 because there's action involved in planning. But the overwhelming majority is going to be looking at
 what am I doing? That's reactive. And I'm just staying busy and I've got to do that. I've got to
 handle that. I've got to do this. I've got to do that work. This is the stuff that comes back to what we
 teach all the time of learning the leadership of crazy cycle, lack of it because it's how what you're
 choosing to put on your plate rather than looking at. Now, take a look at this. Let's say you have
 a plan. You have a vision. And you've lined out, man, this is where I want to spend my time. Now,
 you can look at all these other things that cross your desk. And you have a new filter of which to look at
 those. Like, do I do that? Because what's the missed opportunity cost? If I go and do those things,
 what am I not going to do? That's actually more important and more significant for my life, my family,
 my relationship with God, perhaps even my team, because I'm choosing tasks over leading people
 to do those tasks and leading them to be successful with them. What about fear of failure?
 That can be an enormous one. I mean, the emotional equation is huge. That we are so not as logical
 as we think we are. We are very emotional creatures. And when we get to shoot, I'm facing something new.
 What if I look up at the end of the year and I have failed at everything? Okay, so what if you have?
 How is that any different than say not planning and accidentally ending up in December of 2019?
 How is it any different? It's only a different when we fear failures. As we talk about here all the time
 that fearing failures like being afraid to go to school and learn. It's the emotional side that holds
 us back rather than saying, well, what if I do fail? It's likely you're possibly going to fail.
 You're going to fail. That's okay. You're doing something. You're going to learn from it.
 You're going to learn how to adjust. And now you can take those lessons, know what they're really like.
 And now lead your team inside your business more effectively as well. When they go through that,
 or they wrestle with fear of failure, let me help lead you out of this place. That's hugely beneficial.
 How much this is my softball pitch to you because we teach all the time and people don't realize it.
 So let me just say it as if I don't know the answer this. How much does limiting beliefs in self-sabotage
 play a part and people not leading them? So enormously. And as I answer this, when I think about like
 this event coming up in May, what gets me excited is that it's not these lessons are not isolated.
 They all work together. They all fold in together. There's overlap and linkage between everything that
 we teach. So think about the extent of my unhealthiness will hold me back. The more that I can actually
 learn about myself and overcome, how I self-sabotage, what lies I tell myself such as, "I can't do that."
 That's not my role. I'm not smart enough. I'm not capable. I could never learn that. I could never
 be like this person. All this what amounts to self-hate will hold us back and every person has lies that they
 tell themselves. Most of them were trained to believe from somewhere in influence in our past.
 And those lies drive negative emotion. Those lies drive self-sabotage. That's what one of the things I love
 about even in next-seville life. And I find myself doing a lot of coaching as to you, even with our
 coaching clients is a lot of it comes down to personal coaching, personal counseling of looking at
 decision making and looking at, "Hey, this is what's holding them back and showing them a path of
 how to battle that stuff." The goal isn't perfection. The goal is intentionality. And when I struggle that
 way, how do I battle that and get back? So you're, I'm not teaching that, but you're going to be teaching
 that as you very well know, which is a huge part of making stronger decisions. That's how, for instance,
 that lesson folds in so well with what I'm going to be teaching because they marry up into a powerful
 package of information. I think one of the things we see so often around here that is frustrating because
 it's being taught by parents, by leaders, society teaches, we'll have people come in and we will talk
 about taking these steps forward and you can see people get really frustrated because they already know
 they're going to fail it. And it's like, "Why are you already shooting here?" So why are you the
 limiting belief is there? It's so thick. It's like, "Well, I know I'm not going to get that done." The
 first time I hit it, you know, you're not supposed to. That's why we teach so much practice the thing,
 you will get good at it. It's not a time deal. You're either going to continue on doing things the way you
 are right now, which obviously is not, you know, potentially working out for a lot of people or
 even if it's nothing bad, it's coming of it. You're just still not leading yourself intentionally
 then you're going to continue to stay in the same place. But if you practice this thing, you don't
 have to be perfect immediately. You just have to practice and eventually you're great at it.
 Yeah, the practice is huge. I can't stress the importance of that enough because we do get into that.
 I have to nail it. I have to be perfect out at the first time out. You know, it's like,
 there are a reason that major league baseball players have coaches. These are the best baseball players in
 the world. And yet there is still a coach standing out there next to the second baseman teaching
 them how to be a better second baseman. The whole mindset behind the second baseman is why he is a second
 baseman in the major league. That's the whole mindset because I'm like, hey, come and show me.
 Right. How can I just my gloves slightly different? How do I move on the ball? How do I look at the
 batter at the plate and being able to anticipate where he's probably going to hit the ball? Those fine
 tuning tweaking, it's never about perfection. It's about pursuit. Do I chew gum or sunflower? Exactly.
 It's the first point. Yeah, which I was gone. Always gone. I can do the same far.
 Those are the flour until my mouth just dried out from the salt. So you mentioned killing a
 leadership crazy cycle. This is, we say this a billion times. This is a number one lesson that we push
 leaders that as they become clients. It's the number one thing we focus on. We're focusing on it
 at the main next level leadership live event because it's just that important. How does this apply
 to something so important as killing a leadership crazy cycle? So killing a leadership crazy cycle,
 it robs you of options. It keeps you stuck. It keeps you reacted. If you're in the leadership,
 you're not killing absolutely. So those are those common pain points of it.
 Killing it is what frees you up to actually have the time to plan to have the emotional capacity to plan
 and actually move out on your plan of where you want to take your life. That's why we
 press it so hard in the program is to free you up to do more significant work, more significant
 leadership activity that's truly going to move the needle on your team. Rather than you stay stuck,
 scratching away, trying to lead a little bit, trying to do a little planning, trying to move out
 on a new business opportunity, yet what keeps happening. I can't get traction. I can't move.
 Those are symptoms of you being in the leadership crazy. Crazy thing is as you kill the leadership crazy
 cycle and you're intentional about it and you're intentional about leading yourself, then it's not just a business
 thing and it's not just a life thing. You end up leading everything. Absolutely. Your whole life
 intentionally. Yeah, killing the leadership crazy cycle is the leadership crazy cycle. It is not a
 personal problem. It's a strategic issue. Yeah. That's how you have to view it. It's not a, oh, I need to
 get myself better. No, it's I need to get my team and my business at a higher level, which requires
 freeing me up to lead them to be there. This is a strategic issue on a team or in a business.
 Now, there are some action steps we're going to be going over. And again, you got a big lesson that
 you're going to be teaching on in this. What are some action steps or what is an action step that
 somebody can focus on right now that they can put into place right now? You know, I'm going to hit two.
 I'm going to do like Jesus. Hey, what was the greatest command? And he's like, I'll give you two.
 I'll give you two. So I'm going to give you two for the price of one. Number the first one's like really easy.
 It is top performers move on information immediately. I'm going to challenge everyone right now.
 How many podcasts do you listen to? This show right here that you hear the information. You
 be like, man, that's that's actually really solid. But then, ding it. There's not that follow up. There's not that
 implementation. Move on things. Just pick a thing and move on to act on new information. Now,
 find a way. And if you're not stuck in the leadership crisis cycle, guess what? You have the band
 with to actually do that. So that's number one. Don't wait. Don't procrastinate.
 Move on it now. So the bigger piece is this. If you're going to lead yourself better, you've got
 to know where you're leading yourself to. That requires having a vision. A vision as we teach it as a destination.
 It's not a idea, a hope. Thank you. It's a destination. It's clarity that I can see
 this point in time. I can see where I'm going to be, whether it's in three weeks or whether it's in
 three years. A vision as a destination. The thing that we always teach around here because vision
 gets so messed up when people talk about vision, mission, all that kind of stuff. We make it so
 easy around here like in a strap planner or something like that. I'm always teaching. I'm saying,
 have you ever been to the beach and everybody's been to the beach? And if they haven't, I'll say,
 okay, how about the mountains? If you've been to the beach, do you know what it looks like when you get there?
 Do you know where you're going to do on the beach? Are you going to have an umbrella? Are you going
 to have a paddle board? A paddle board? A towel that you lay on? What are the kids going to be doing?
 You can see where you're going to go to dinner tonight because you've been there and you know,
 you know the places that you eat the incredibly deep fried fish, which is just insane. Healthy stuff,
 deep fried, all of these things you could see, that's the vision itself, the destination. Where we're
 going to be, what it's going to look like when we get there and people get that so messed up,
 that they think that the vision is the process. And it's not, it's the destination, the strategy,
 the goals, all of those pieces, get us to that vision. Exactly. So we're actually planning a
 beach trip this year. We're literally in the mountain. One of our goals, one of our vision item,
 if you will, is a, hey, we want to do a beach trip again this year. We're literally walking through
 the decision making process in our, in our home right now. But the vision is critical because
 so many times, if you talk to someone who is feeling stuck, are there feeling discontent,
 or they're feeling like, I just don't know, Joel, I'm just, you will find there's no plan. There's no intentionality,
 there's no destination. And as soon as the brain has an anchor point, like a vision,
 it all of a sudden it's like way to second. I can now back out of that and determine what I need to do.
 I'll tell you, what I'm talking about is not complicated, but so many people just choose not to
 do. It takes work. You do. It's not down. And actually map it out, but it comes down to priorities.
 It comes down to many, you know, what's most important, do I want to lead intentionally,
 toward whatever I define a success or do I want to accidentally just default wakeups at some point,
 not knowing where I'm going to be and hoping it's going to be okay. Yeah, this is something I try
 and pound into people's brains. You have to understand you're doing something with the same hours today.
 No matter what, if you have a desire to be different, to be better, to have more money, to have
 a better family, to have a better spiritual life, physical life, whatever, you're choosing today
 to do something with the same hours. You're just not being as intentional as you could be. So the
 very things you're saying, I know people are hearing that and going, well, yeah, that doesn't sound
 that complicated. It's not. You know, really isn't. Well, then what's my issue? My lack of intentionality,
 my lack of training. I don't have the tools. Somebody hasn't taught me how to to live intentionally,
 how to lead myself better. That's the thing that's missing. It's not that you are going to have
 to come up with more hours in the day. You're actually going to adjust how you do today's hours and find
 out that after you practice this a little bit, you actually get more freedom in your day, more time
 in your day, more ability to spend leading people, more ability to spend with your family,
 because you've been incredibly intentional. The tough part is making the decision to do the
 front side. If you do the front side, then everything else. This is how do we live. This is how we live
 around here. Our leadership team went to Israel and it was fantastic. We're so intentional around
 here. We're so intentional about leaning. We come back and I don't know if how many clients you had,
 but I had many clients that said, how many fires you put out? And I'm like, none. They're like,
 what? Come on. I'm like, no, we were gone for 10 days. There was zero fires when we came back.
 The team is doing an incredible job. I handled one email. You handled, I think, to Heather handled,
 I think, one or two, while we were gone. That was literally it. And the faces of clients that are like,
 how is that even possible? I'm like, do the stuff we teach? Do the very things that we're teaching you?
 That you know, then you can leave for 10 days and come back because your team is being successful.
 And it's all intentional. So how intentional does a person need to be to leave themselves?
 I would say it doesn't have to be like, well, my gosh, I've got to constantly be intentional. I've
 got to constantly be in task mode. It doesn't have to be that way. I'll just suggest take a baby
 step toward intentionality. Think about this conversation and what's one thing that I could be more
 intentional about. You know, I'm talking to everyone listening to you know something right now.
 You know right now, it's like, man, I need to do a better job with this. I need to be more intentional
 about a date night with my spouse and actually arranging a babysitter. We get caught up in momentum.
 That's the wrong way. We get caught up in routines and just going through the motions a week by week by
 week. And then we look up at some point and we decide, gosh, I'm really not happy with where I'm at.
 No. Change it. Start literally making different behaviors. But start with, what's the vision?
 Where do I want to be back out of it to determine how am I going to get there? So something very important
 coming off of this real is that this year is that our family, we want to spend more time
 focusing on God's celebrations. His festivals that are in the Bible. We put them on the calendar.
 Many of them, I mean, you and Heather sitting here are going to be invited and be a part of those
 because we want to have that fellowship with our best friends and celebrating and worshiping God in that
 way in these ways that are just man, what an incredible festival and time to share a meal and talk about
 what the Lord has done and what He's doing today. So it wants to be more intentional with even things like that.
 Let me press into that a little bit because we're also going to be doing that here at the office.
 We are scheduling and being intentional about celebration. There you go. I think that,
 yeah, folks, if you hear that and you're thinking, what do you mean you're being intentional
 and scheduling time to celebrate? Don't you just celebrate on the scheduled stuff? No, we're being intentional
 to celebrate. Not show up and you know, oh, it's a power to me. Here's a gift and
 hey, what time do we get out of here? You know, what, you know, give me the signal when it's time to
 know, being intentional about celebrating. Planning it. Being intentional. That tells.
 What do we want to achieve? What do we want to talk about? What's the effect we want to have?
 What do we want people to get out of it? And what is celebrating? Look like. Exactly. Not just showing up,
 but actually worshiping God and joining the process all that kind of mindset. What makes this hard
 is we're moving in a direction. Every single person is moving down a path and it's changing that path.
 It's changing it to a new level of effort in a different way because as you pointed out,
 you're not going to get any more time back. It's our choices of what we do with our time.
 But this sounds so basic, but it is, but it's a main thing that holds people back
 from actually living life. Growing and to a better leader because sometimes things are hard, right?
 They are hard. This leadership isn't easy. There are difficult aspects. It's like,
 "Oh, it's octaves of people's time. It's like, man, it's like, I really prefer just to do tasks
 because the people things harder." Yes, it is. The paper doesn't talk back to you. The computer,
 you can just turn the thing off or switch what you're doing. I don't want to do a song to stuff right now.
 I want to go and just answer an email because it's easier. The people thing is harder,
 but this stuff comes back to some of the same root issues. It's harder based on what else we're doing in our life.
 When we are freed up, we actually spend more time on more significant things that have bigger impact
 where we have more emotional freedom in our life. All of a sudden, the leading part and the people part
 isn't as hard anymore. You're not as overwhelmed. I think people would be surprised to find out that
 in yesterday's staff meeting, I took an hour and 15 minutes before we even got to details that we
 needed to cover teaching, teaching the whole team, which is incredibly common around here.
 That's what we do. We're intentional about making sure. This is why we don't have fires when we
 get back. This is why our team just operates at a phenomenal level and it loves coming to work every day
 and enjoys what we do. I'll tell you, this is a one or two hours a week, which we do more than that.
 One or two hours a week of intentional leadership and teaching in that way is what makes all the rest of the
 hours on the team look like 80. Because of why we get so much done, because of what really fuels and helps people
 and helps team members succeed in their jobs. We think, we want them to be more productive. I need them
 spending more time working. We need them to be more productive, performing at a higher level. Does not mean
 you have to be literally doing a task every single hour of your job.
 So schedule the steps, get the things going. We give a couple of things for people to do right now. They
 can make happen right now. One of those things that needs to schedule is come to this event.
 >> This is one small piece of three days of incredible life-changing business changing, leadership
 changing, less and less. >> This has been saying all throughout the promotion of this event
 change your leadership change your life. You hear it at the end of the show. Now 300 and something shows. You've heard that message as a
 listeners. Change your leadership. Think about this. You change your life. That is the essence of what we're talking about here.
 Is that you're going to lead your team to be more successful and you're going to benefit as well.
 But you're going to change your entire life by what you're going to learn. >> Absolutely. So folks, if you are thinking at all
 about joining us and over 100 other leaders at the next level leadership live event, you can get a hundred dollars off of your tickets
 right now. Now this is the last week that you can get that savings. So don't miss it.
 January 29th at midnight, that $100 goes away. And it's $100 off of each ticket.
 And if you're going to get two or more tickets, then there's even an additional discount. So go to
 Chrisacordo.com/events and get all the info you need and the hundred dollars off part ticket before that expires.
 Get that today, Chrisacordo.com/events. Well, brother, thank you for joining us on this show for having me.
 >> It's just been two long since we've had you on here. So good to have you here. And as you are mentioning,
 as always, we hope this information has helped you. Take this information, change your leadership,
 change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.