 On today's episode we are discussing how to prioritize better to get more important things done.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 Today we are talking about how to prioritize better as a leader.
 We are going to discuss the importance of prioritization in leadership for both business growth and personal development.
 Now listen, I know as I say prioritizing you are probably thinking, "Oh, I prioritize really well.
 Well, I will tell you, I'm going to push back on that," who would say, "That's the bulk of people and all of us in our business.
 We came from this as well. Have not been taught how to prioritize well.
 Have not been taught how to prioritize correctly.
 Most entrepreneurs that I know, or most entrepreneurs that I have led, one I first meet them.
 Their prioritization is what feels right.
 This is the thing, this is the fire that's burning. I got to go put out the fire.
 Those are not great ways of prioritizing for business growth and it's definitely not good for personal development.
 So what we tend to see is that style.
 Hey, this is the fire. We got to handle the fire.
 I don't really know what we should be doing so we are going to handle the thing that's right in front of us.
 I think I've set good priorities, but I am running 90 to nothing and I couldn't tell you everything I did today.
 Our goal is to help you out in that area.
 Our goal is to help you to change that and be able to prioritize really well.
 So that you are able to grow your business and it allows you to focus if you do it really well, it actually gets stuff off your plate.
 If you do it really well, it gives you time back.
 And I know nobody listening to this episode wants more time back, right?
 Of course we do. Why? Well, you know what? Actually let me say, some people don't.
 Some people want to be run a 90 to nothing because then they convince themselves that doing all the right stuff.
 I will tell you that being able to have time to focus on my leadership and my business and what growth looks like and what priorities are.
 And you know, strat plan, strategizing what we're doing.
 Those are the things that allow me to be a better leader.
 Being busy, non stop with things and not knowing what I'm doing.
 I don't get the lead. I don't lead. I don't focus on strategy.
 I focus on the thing that's right in front of me.
 That's why years and years ago, I just had enough. I was done with it.
 I was tired of running like that.
 I knew that I needed to change things. And so that's what we're going to kind of talk about today.
 So we have three keys of things that we're going to discuss on prioritizing better.
 The first one is understand your goals. What do I mean by that?
 So many people write down goals. They'll sit down and say, here's the things I want to accomplish next year.
 I want to do these 10 things. And then they put those things down on piece of paper, write it down on their,
 and on their computer, put it somewhere, and then it sits there.
 And then they hope that they accomplish those 10 things somewhere around November, December.
 They pull that thing back up again and go, oh, hey, well, we hit three of those things.
 Those are not goals, guys. Those are dreams.
 You need to be setting clear goals that are measurable.
 What do I mean by that? Well, if let's say you plan on growing your business by
 100 new clients next year, 300 new clients, 1000 new clients, whatever it is, then what you have to do is take this concept first for me.
 And again, there's so much to this, but I'm going to give you the basics around this.
 The first thing I would do is find out, do I have the capacity for 300 new clients? Can I add 300 new clients with my business capacity?
 100 new clients, 1000 new clients? What's the number of clients I could take on with my resources? My team, my sales staff, my customer service staff.
 You know, the people that are going to provide the service products, whatever for these new clients.
 The last thing I want to do is add more people than I can handle.
 I don't want to bring on clients. And next thing you know, I can't service all the clients I currently have.
 And next thing you know, I'm dropping balls on things and clients are getting upset and I'm losing clients.
 That's not how we like to grow. Now, everybody out there thinks, I don't grow as fast as you can.
 But as many clients on as you can, that's what I do it. No, it is not.
 That's the way people who don't prioritize well do it. That's the way that people who end up battling like crazy and putting out fires 24/7,
 becoming professional firefighters. That's the way that they do it.
 Those of us who run businesses better than that, run well, we actually choose to look at what we can accomplish.
 How much do we have? We look at adding clients and recognize when it's too much, because too much is actually going to create problems.
 It's not going to make you know, 4,000 clients is going to be great. No, it's not. Not if your business can't handle it.
 In fact, and when a company comes through for the first track plan, almost every single time.
 I ask a question, if we were to double your revenue tomorrow, what would happen?
 The whole leadership team goes, we'd self implode. We couldn't handle it. There's no way we're not prepared for something like that.
 We're not ready for what we're dealing with right now.
 So the key is you have to set clear goals that are attainable. Something you can hit. So my suggestion is sit down, go through all of your resources.
 All of the things that it's going to take to service your clients that you currently have, assuming that adding new clients is,
 adding sales or something like that. There could be all kinds of different things that you want to set goals on. Go through and kind of reverse engineer from what the goal looks like
 To everything it's going to take to accomplish it. Yes, I did say everything.
 Everything you need to do to make sure that you get to that goal. Walk through it backwards.
 If this is the destination over here, then what are all the things I'm going to have to do to get there. I always use the example of going to the beach. Everybody's been at the beach.
 I'm at least that. Thank everybody has a lot of people have. You know it's like to go to the beach.
 You know what it's like when you're there, you know what you're going to do on the beach, whether you're going to lay out in the sun or throw a frisbee or read a book or whatever.
 You know, where you're going to go eat what kind of food you're going to eat, the things you're going to do.
 You probably have a favorite hotel or Airbnb or something that you stay at. I don't know. But most people know what it's like to be at the beach.
 The key is is how do we get there? So how do we get to having that vacation that we want? Well, we've got to have travel plans.
 And if we're flying it for driving a car, we need directions or fuel up the car or, you know, we need playing tickets.
 We need to reserve the Airbnb or the hotel or we need to make sure that we're packing all the right stuff. If we're going to the beach,
 do we have bathing suits and you know, so on and so on and so on and so on. All those things, believe it or not, are micro steps.
 They're, they're little pieces of strategy.
 They are action steps in a strategy of getting to our destination and having a good time.
 If the goal is the beach and the goal is fun and the goal is, you know, family time and all that stuff,
 we've got to do all of these steps to make sure that it becomes successful. Folks, not a whole heck of a lot different when it comes to your business.
 Obviously, considerably more complex in areas, but the concepts are still the same.
 Right? You need to put together clear goals of what you plan on doing, put the steps together of how you're going to get there.
 And then this is super, super important, make them measurable. If you cannot measure every step along the way to getting to that goal,
 then how are you ever going to know whether or not you're doing it well or whether or not you're doing it right.
 Measure the goals. If it takes me, you know, if I'm going to add, you know, a hundred clients in a year, let's say a hundred and twenty clients in a year,
 that means that I'm going to be adding ten clients a month. That means that every single month and if it worked out this way,
 every single month, I've got to add ten clients. That means I've got to do steps in this very first month to make sure that I get ten clients.
 That's two and a half clients a week. So if I get to the end of the week and I don't have two and a half clients, I'm already behind.
 That's going to affect my whole year. What if things have to change right now to make sure that I kick it up so by the end of week two, I've got five clients.
 Right. All of those pieces, all those measurements that show you how you're doing or your team shows you team, how you're doing.
 Those are musts when it comes to setting clear goals and actually accomplishing them.
 Another thing you need to do is you need to differentiate between the urgent and the important tasks.
 Right. You need to make sure that you're taking a look at the things that you're accomplishing and asking yourself,
 is this something that's just urgent or at least it seems to have urgency on it because I don't know. It appears to be a fire, but maybe it's not.
 But it seems like it has to get done, but maybe it doesn't.
 You need to separate that out from the important task. If I don't get this task done, then blank.
 Right. Now what do I mean? There are many things in our life that is urgent, but not important.
 That email that comes in pops into your inbox while you're focused on something important, like maybe your salesperson and your focusing on
 trying to close some sales keeps some momentum going and then you get momentum going and then you get this email in your inbox.
 It's like, I gotta stop and I gotta open up the email because it might be a sale. It's urgent. You open up the email and it's something that somebody has sent you,
 which is like a cat playing a piano on YouTube.
 Definitely not important, but it sure seemed urgent because it came into your email inbox and by gosh everything coming into your email inbox is
 God, it'd be important, right? No, it doesn't. So sometimes we have things that are set up in a ways that create an urgency,
 but when we get to them we realize they weren't important. Another way we do that is sometimes we don't want to go out to the difficult things,
 so instead we make things that are not important urgent, like answering emails. If I don't want to get to that tough thing that I have to do today,
 boy, I'm sure going to go through my 47 emails or 400 emails, whatever I got in my inbox,
 I'm going to go through those because those are something I really, those are urgent. I've got to get to those.
 They may seem urgent, but they're not important. You've got to separate, you've got to differentiate between
 what appears to be urgent and what is important and then prioritize the daylights out of the important.
 What are the things I need to get done today to move this business forward? What are the things I need to get done today to move my goals forward?
 Are the urgent things actually that urgent? If they're not, put that in your mind of, this isn't something I need to get to right now.
 Maybe shove it aside and get on the important things and when you're done with the important things, knock off a couple of those things that
 appeared to be urgent. Another thing you need to do with your goals is make sure that you're aligning your daily tasks
 with the long-term objectives. What do I mean by that? You've got only so many hours today to get things done.
 So it would be wise to take a look at what is your responsibility in accomplishing this goal? Now, maybe a goal that's just for you,
 maybe a goal for your team, I don't know, whatever it is. But whatever part your responsibility for does today's task align with accomplishing that goal.
 I know you get tons of other things to do. I get that I understand it. We'll talk about that on the next key here.
 The thing is, the sooner you start putting in the tasks that are going to help you accomplish that goal as important,
 as soon as you prioritize all the things that are important instead of urgent, and you start knocking those things out,
 and you'll be blown away at how fast you start moving in the direction of knocking out that goal.
 Who knows, you might not, can I? Faster than you thought. So you got to take a look at your daily tasks,
 the things that you have to do today and ask yourself the question, with my responsibility for accomplishing the goal that I've set,
 or the goals that I've set clearly, what should I be working on today? When should I work on it?
 Do I need to put a time block together so I can knock those things out?
 Make sure that you're putting your daily tasks together in order of most important,
 unless something has to have a specific time frame, build it up as most important to least important,
 and then start knocking out the important things. This will help you to accomplish the aspects that you are responsible for on this goal that you've set.
 Key number two, and this is, this is a tough one, no matter how much people think they do this well,
 most people do not, and that is delegate effectively. Folks, I will tell you that the art of delegation has a massive impact on prioritization.
 What do I mean? You have got to get things off of your plate that you should not be focusing on. Now, mainly I'm speaking to leaders,
 I'm speaking to business owners here, I'm speaking to anyone who is not paid to do the same job over and over and over and over again.
 There are plenty of people who are paid to do tasks, right?
 And they are looking to you, leader, to lead them and make them better. So if you are loaded up with tasks,
 guess what you are not doing, leading. You are not making their life better, you are not making their job better,
 you're not making them better at what they're doing, you're not making it easier for them to accomplish things faster,
 you're not focused on them because you're overloaded with tasks.
 So you need to go through your tasks and discover what things need to change, what things should you not be doing
 that you can delegate to somebody else and get them to do it, so you can focus on higher level stuff, like making your team members better.
 That's your job as a leader to make your team successful, not the other way around.
 So what does it take to make them successful?
 It definitely is never going to happen when you have a leader who's bogged down in tasks. It just can't.
 You can't possibly get it done. You can't get everything done.
 If your tasks are your identity, if you feel important because you're running 90 to nothing,
 then I can tell you you're going to have a really difficult time giving up those tasks.
 But for those of you who actually want to grow, grow personally, grow your business, then an important thing to do is spend time going through your tasks
 and discovering the things that you really shouldn't be doing.
 One impactful way I like to say it is this. Take your salary.
 Take a look at how much you pay yourself per hour.
 Take a look at your tasks. Ask yourself what things should not be done at your pay rate.
 So if you're a business owner and you're taking home a larger chunk than an administrative person on your team who could be doing the job,
 but you're doing it then guess what? You are paying you your hourly rate to do something that you pay an administrative person to do.
 What does that mean? You are not focusing on things that are going to make that person's life easier,
 that it's going to grow the business that's going to help everybody else.
 Because you're stuck doing administrative tasks.
 So get those things off your plate and do something that's worth the money that you pay yourself.
 Stop doing things that you have other folks that you're paying to do.
 Right? It makes sense.
 Well, how do I want them to think that I'm not doing trust me?
 If they are healthy team members, their focus is on whether or not you're doing administrative tasks.
 What are you doing the things that are going to keep this business moving?
 Right? My team does not ever want me stuck in administrative tasks.
 They expect me to be doing the more higher level stuff that I need to do that keeps the business going and keeps bringing in work for them to do.
 So if I'm bogged down in administrative tasks, they're going to start asking themselves the question,
 "Who's going to lead the business? Who's going to make this thing work?"
 If you do in those things, then how long is it going to be before things start falling apart?
 Now your team may not think that way, but mine does because we teach this stuff.
 So they're constantly expecting me to do the things that are higher level that I am more experienced at,
 not focusing on something that they are great at and they can knock out and here's the funny thing.
 The administrative people can knock out the things way faster than I can because I'm just,
 I'm not that great at it. I'm not that type of a person.
 I'm not an administrative person who can keep doing the same thing over and over again every single day.
 Right? They're good at it. It's their expertise. I let them do it.
 I get it off my plate. I've got it off my plate.
 And then I delegate it. Here's the other thing. You have to make sure that the person you're delegating to actually has the ability to take on new types of things.
 If they have the capacity to, if they have the ability to,
 great, then you can start handing things over to them.
 But it doesn't stop there. If they don't have the capacity and you do need to get stuff to them,
 you have to ask the question, is there things that can come off for their plate and go to somebody else?
 Because I need to get stuff off of mine.
 I need to start getting these things moving. Well, Chris, but I don't have that right now.
 It's possible you don't. So you're going to have to keep doing the things that you're doing as you continue to work to build the business.
 So you can start hiring some more people so you can get some stuff off your plate.
 Right? We do it through the cost justification.
 If I get these things off of my plate to somebody else and they're doing it, does that allow me that the hourly rate that I'm paying them?
 Does that allow me the opportunity to go make more money than I'm paying them hourly?
 Right? If I'm doing more important things, if I'm focusing on clients, if I'm focusing on sales, whatever it is,
 can I make more money if I get the stuff my plate and pass it on to somebody who's administrative?
 That's what we're looking for. Now, as we delegate, don't do what most people do.
 Hands something up. Here you go. I need you to go do this thing.
 Did you get it done yet? Did you get it done yet? Hey, is that thing done yet? It's not done yet? Okay. I'll just take it back.
 I'll make it happen. Listen, proper delegation is not about you handing something over to somebody,
 expecting that they can do it incredibly well and then bug in the daylights out of them to find out if they've done it.
 Instead, what you need to do is spend time training and teaching them.
 Well, Chris, I don't have time. We just realize that I'm bogged down.
 Yep, here's a deal. This is going to add a little bit more work to you to get more work off of you.
 To properly delegate, you have to spend time with a person you're getting to,
 make sure that you teach trained coach guide, direct everything you can to make them successful at doing the thing that you've been doing.
 And then ask them a ton of questions to make sure that they understand it.
 And then you come back on a scheduled basis, you know, maybe it's once a day, maybe it's once every few days, maybe it's once a week.
 In checking on them to see how they're doing, not asking if they got it done, asking if they've got questions asking if everything makes sense.
 Ask if anything's confusing.
 Ask if there's any better ways that they could think to do it.
 Yes, they may come up with a better way than you've been doing it.
 Right, ask them if there's any tools that they need, whatever it takes to get them to a place that they're doing it successfully and hopefully doing it better than you did.
 Yes, you should not feel bad about that.
 I want to be able to pass things onto my team that they do better than me, right?
 Because that means I raised up somebody who's doing better than I am.
 That means I've not only duplicated myself, but it's even going better.
 These are the things that we are looking for.
 So, last thing you need to do, not the last thing, just the things that we're covering in this episode on proper delegation.
 So much more in our lesson killing the leadership crazy cycle.
 There's a ton, but these are things that are going to help you right now to get this done, right?
 The next thing you need to do is empower your team members through the delegation process to increase the productivity and focus.
 What does that mean?
 Let them know that the thing that you're passing onto them needs to get to a specific level of success, right?
 So be very aware that they may, after a period of time know a lot of times we don't want anybody to reinvent the wheel.
 Sometimes that's the reason why we don't delegate is we're afraid somebody's going to try and reinvent the wheel and it's going to be worse than it was.
 Because sometimes people do that, right?
 But if you've trained them properly and they're doing it successfully, then allow them the opportunity to give input, don't change anything,
 but hit me up with ideas on tools that could make this go better, faster, you know, software that can make this easier on you.
 Whatever it takes, what is it that you can do or whatever you're thinking about or spend some time processing and thinking about,
 how could this go better, faster, easier, whatever it is.
 Let them know that they have the ability to question the process.
 Now change it, don't change yet. I want to talk about it with you. You know, run it by me. Let's discuss it.
 You know, until you know the person so well and you've delegated so many times to that person that you know that they always come up with a better way.
 And you can trust the process, you know, have them run it through you.
 Make sure that they are getting with you to say, hey, I think this could be better here. Hey, I think this part's not even needed.
 Whatever it is, empower your team members and that will help to increase the productivity as well as the focus.
 Key number three embrace flexibility. Folks, you've got to get really good at adapting to changing situations.
 When it comes to goal setting, when it comes to productivity, please make sure that you in your mind, you're not setting things in stone.
 This is one of the toughest things for certain personality styles.
 You know, some personality styles love the change. Oh, I want the change. I don't want to be stuck to the same goal. You know, I hope it changes. Well, that's probably not a clear and successful setting of a goal.
 We're hoping that we did it right on the front side and we're laying this thing out well. We're accomplishing it well. But here's a deal. Things are going to happen. One of the things we tell people during
 Stratplan is listen. We've put together this we've spent days here putting together this six nine, 12 month plan for you to go back and implement.
 And right now, it seems pretty darn fantastic. But when you get back home, you have no clue what's going to torpedo your day. What's going to, you know, you might have a key leader leave. You might have an issue with the client. You might have something that comes along and torpedoes your day and it's going to affect this plan.
 Be prepared. Be ready for it. Be able to adapt what needs to change. Not just the urgent, but what's important that needs to change. What needs to adjust. What do we need to scale differently? What do we need to spread out?
 You know, I don't always, I always tell people don't let that be the excuse for you not getting things done on your goals and in your strategy. Because then you'll just keep pushing that thing out. And instead of being, you know, going to the beach in the summer you're going to the beach in the next spring.
 That's not what we're looking for. We're looking for hey, here's what's happened. Reprioritize come back to everything that's a priority on your list and ask yourself the question, what are the most important ones. What do we need to push what do we need to change.
 You may also find out sometimes putting your strategy together to get to your destination that there's parts of it that aren't going to work or there's parts of it that aren't needed or there's parts of it that are redundant.
 When you get to those places evaluate like crazy, make the changes. So be prepared for things that are going to come upon you that you weren't expecting that are going to torpedo your day that are going to change things for you.
 How do we react to this? The other thing is what are the things that we're doing that we need to change. Please please please please. Don't consider this a sacred cow.
 Don't consider anything a sacred cow for that. Don't look at this and go we laid out this plan. I'm too embarrassed to change any of it. You know, we laid it out. We're moving to the direction that the team knows it.
 Listen, one great thing to teach your team is to adapt when things aren't going the way we wanted them to.
 So I always hate it when people just push forward on a goal like crazy and don't stop. Like what we made this commitment. No, you made a commitment to try and accomplish the goal.
 So if the goal is not going to work out, don't make your team stay stuck to certain aspects of it. Change it. Fix it. Do whatever takes to make the goal right.
 Change those things. Don't keep doing the same thing just because you're afraid that everybody's going to look at you and go, I thought this was what we were supposed to do.
 It was. But now we're adapting. We've come to new information. We're further down the line and we're looking at it differently and realizing we need to make some tweaks and changes.
 The worst thing is the goal is not going to work out. You've gotten far enough to realize this thing's possibly going to collapse or fail.
 Instead, you keep moving forward. Nope. Can't let go. Nope. Got to keep doing it. Nope. We've got to make this thing happen. We've got to figure it out. We've got to do whatever takes.
 Instead of gaining quality perspective, recognizing that the thing actually probably needs to be shot and buried.
 And then you move on. But what is everybody going to think? Well, if you help them to understand that the goal that we had set up, we're now coming to a place of realizing it was going to fail.
 And we don't want to keep pushing things forward on something that's going to fail. They'd probably think you're pretty smart.
 If you don't, and they know that it's going to fail and you keep pushing forward, they're probably going to think you're pretty dumb.
 Because they're not going to understand why you're still doing it. So make sure that you are adapting. If you find out that something is not going to work out, don't keep doing it.
 Use your pride. Use your ego. Use your hubris. Fix the thing. Make adjustments. Do whatever you need to do. Hey folks, a couple years ago I was visiting with a client.
 And the CEO said to me, Chris, we're not going to hit our goal. I asked him what he meant. And he said, we're going to miss our three year revenue goal coming out of Stratpland by a few months.
 I didn't realize it at first that he was having a little fun with me by saying they were about to triple their company in less than three years. How freaking awesome is that folks.
 These are the kinds of results that businesses get by coming through our four day Stratpland events. On average, we find two point one million dollars worth of revenue in the next 12 months that the company was not planning on.
 And this event is for all size businesses. If you're small, medium or large, it works for every single business because it's not industry specific. It's about gaining all the information about all the things inside of your business that are holding you back from success.
 And then giving you a plan and a process on how to walk that out and be successful in your business by discovering the things that are holding you back. It helps you get to all of those goals that you've been planning on for a long time.
 So if you're ready to get the perspective you need to solve what's holding you and your business back so you can grow faster than you need Stratpland to learn more go to Chrissacordo.com/Stratpland that's Chrissacordo.com/Stratpland
 So understand your goals. Make sure you're delegating effectively. Make sure that you're embracing flexibility. Okay, so
 What are some common barriers to effective prioritization? Well, I will tell you the first thing. I started with this essentially is that's the over commitment.
 Taking on too much absolutely has a terrible effect on setting goals on prioritization. When you don't realize it and how does it happen? It's simple. It's like I was saying.
 When you don't understand what your capacity is to accomplish the goal that you're setting when you don't understand and I'm talking about everywhere. Team members, money, cash flow, tools, footprint, whatever any resource that you have that you're going to utilize of correct vendors to pull it off.
 Any resources that you have to pull this thing off if you do not understand your capacity in all of those areas then what in the world are you doing setting a number or a goal whatever.
 So often and I mean often people are taught that you don't check out what your capacity is we don't even understand that concept yet. We don't do that kind of stuff. What we do is we put up a number and we tell people to go after it.
 There are most of the businesses I know have at one point or another use that as a goal setting tool. Here's where we want to get we want to make a million dollars next year. Got to go team let's make it happen.
 But how are you going to do that though we got to work harder. Okay so as your team that working hard enough now apparently not because we need a million more dollars so maybe they are working hard but they need to work harder.
 When you're a million dollars that's the most ridiculous way to ever figure out how to set a goal. How to get to a goal.
 Instead what you need to do is spend time looking through your team your teams whatever all your resources and asking yourself the question.
 What do we have available in the next 12 months that we can utilize to accomplish a new goal.
 If our team is working at 70% great we got 30% more. If our footprint could take on three more hires great can we do we have the resources to hire through more people do accomplish.
 Whatever it is go through and find out what your capacity is if you overcome it to stuff and you don't understand what you can accomplish then what you're going to discover is thing you're going to be putting out fires like crazy.
 You will be a professional firefighter and you will spend your days and probably your team as well fighting fires folks taking on too much is not smart.
 Jim Collins talked about this years ago and the book Good to Great and it was just it's such a fantastic thing to see big businesses doing.
 There are many of these very large organizations industry organizations that set parameters like and I'm just making these numbers up but they're not that far off.
 They're probably pretty exact actually. We can't grow any less than 10% 12% 14% but we surely cannot grow any more than 22% 22% 24%
 Right somewhere in a range like that. Now keep a month in that industry. So for a small business we might be able to grow 40 60% and we do just fine.
 And the thing is they have come to understand growing any less than the minimum number the minimum percentage that they've put in place is actually going to create problems.
 They're going to have financial issues. They're going to have resource issues right they're not going to be making enough money and they're going to have people totaling their thumbs.
 You know you might have good people leaving there's all kinds of things that can come you not be able to pay your vendors on time all that stuff right.
 But what they've also realized is that they can't grow past a specific percentage because if 20% is the maximum their their resources can handle the max capacity that they have.
 Then 21% is going to start to create problems. 22% is going to create big problems 24% is going to create fires.
 And now they're going to have to take all of their resources and focus them on fixing and putting out the fires instead of allowing them to stay really focused on the the accurate percentage of growth.
 So make sure you're not over committing make sure you're taking a hard look at what you have capacity wise and building your priorities according to this also do not allow the the foam.
 In your life in your business right don't allow the fear of missing out to impact your decision make oh my gosh we've got to do every every idea is a good idea and we got to go do every good idea no you do not.
 Our company has a thousand great ideas we did we do strap plan with our own company.
 One we did years ago we had all these sheets that we put up and wrote down all these different revenue opportunities and then rolled them up and laughed.
 And the funny thing is is I think we were saying back then I think we're saying yeah well 20 I think it was a 20 23 22 something like that yeah we'll get to that at 22.
 And 22 came around and you know those things haven't even touched why because not every good idea needs to be accomplished.
 The things that are making the money and continuing to move your business forward and serving people and taking care of people in our situation worshiping God with the things that we do.
 Those are the things you need to focus on when you can grow it beyond those and still keep those you know done with excellent and you have more capacity great pull out more things to do.
 But don't go adding things when you are not operating with excellence and definitely don't go do things that are going to pull energy away from the current thing that is actually creating the revenue that you have.
 Only leaving it without the energy right so it starts to fall apart while the teams work in really well I'm going to go and focus on this thing over here.
 Well if you're part of that energy then guess what the teams going to start not doing really well.
 If they needed you around to help them to accomplish this stuff and there's not a champion in there to continue to lead the team to success then the team's going to start to fall apart.
 This team's going to start to wonder what's going on with the leader right the team's going to start to think well maybe he doesn't care about this and maybe we're just not that important there's all kinds of crap that runs through somebody's brain right.
 So do not fall for a foam mode for your missing out focus on the things that are doing you are doing really well focus on the things that are making you money and continue to do those things with excellence as they grow your business.
 Then you can take a look at adding other things as long as you continue to keep energy focus partization on the things that are making you money right now another thing you need to do is get rid of any concept of perfectionism folks.
 Perfectionism is a hindrance it is going to hinder any partization anything that you think you're going to get accomplished if it has to be perfect it's just not going to get done.
 And you're going to continue to spend time on something that was good enough and could have gone out the door you're going to continue to spend time on that thing attempting to try and make it perfect.
 Only to discover that you're not getting to the other things that you were supposed to be prioritizing as well.
 So that is going to hold you back I know you think that things have to be perfect they do not you can't get to perfection.
 Let me say that again in front of you folks that struggle with that one you can't get to perfection not on this out of heaven right.
 So make it good enough and get it out let it go get it launched get it going do it you need to do make sure you know you've done the best you can to make it successful.
 But you've not gone to the point of making it perfect if you will do those things you'll have a great opportunity at making your goals successful.
 Now listen running your own small business means wearing a gazillion hats one minute you're crunching numbers the next you're solving a team issue the next you're working hard to keep customers happy.
 It's a roller coaster well here's a thought have you ever noticed how understanding yourself a bit better can make all this simpler.
 That's where self awareness steps in it's like having a secret weapon that helps you tackle these everyday challenges with a bit more ease and a lot less stress.
 Imagine knowing exactly what makes you tick but fires up your team and how to keep your cool even when things get hectic.
 That's the power of self awareness it's not just good for you it's great for your business guess what you can dive deeper into this at the next level leadership live event which is happening April 17th to the 19th in Franklin Tennessee.
 It's the perfect place to explore how self awareness can transform your business and make your life considerably easier. So why not Jonas.
 Sound up now at crystal curdle dot com slash events remember that's April 17th through the 19th and visit crystal curdle dot com slash events to take advantage of early bird pricing.
 We hope to see you there.
 Well folks that's all the time we have for today I hope that this is really helped you out to take a hard look at how you set priorities and set goals for this year.
 What is that going to look like for you I hope you it helps you to do those with success and be happy that when you get to the end of the year you're accomplishing considerably more than you have in any other year.
 As always take this information change your leadership change your business change your life and Jonas on the next episode.
 [Music]