 [music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show,
 where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do,
 not who you are.
 [music]
 Welcome to the show.
 Today's quote is from Robert Frost,
 which is the only way around.
 It's through.
 And that is going to make so much more sense
 as I go through today's episode.
 Folks, today we are talking about
 having tough conversations.
 Now, I want to ask you.
 So raise of hands unless you're driving.
 Have you ever delayed or avoided
 a tough conversation with a team member?
 Okay, so all hands should be in the air right now
 or maybe it's a leader, maybe it's a spouse.
 Why do we do that?
 We tiptoe around and shut things under the rug
 and still expect our team to grow.
 Chances are, there's a tough conversation you need
 to be having right now with a team member
 or maybe it's a vendor or maybe it's a customer
 that for some reason you've delayed it.
 Perhaps you've delayed because you're not sure
 how the other person's going to respond.
 Maybe it's fear of hurting them
 or concern that they're going to deny the problem
 or fear of upsetting them or perhaps
 it's fear that the person may even quit.
 Folks, it is essential to overcome fears, worries
 and making assumptions for a long-term success
 with tough conversations.
 You can't have long-term success with tough conversations
 if you're fearful.
 You can't have long-term success with tough conversations
 if you're making assumptions.
 It's just you can't do it.
 The fact is when you avoid having tough conversations
 with your team member, it only holds back their growth
 as a person, as a team member,
 it holds back your business growth as well.
 It's a loose loose.
 Tough conversations aren't fun,
 but they're necessary.
 When a team member is going against culture
 or mistakes are made,
 you need to know how to press and lead that
 is what we're talking about today.
 So how to lead your team through conflict,
 struggle, difficulties,
 how to tackle tough conversations,
 and we're going to get right down into the details
 of what to say when you're leading these conversations.
 What is standing in the way of your business goals?
 Maybe you sprint through your days,
 exhausted, balancing the workload of 10 people,
 maybe you're always putting out fires
 rather than having time to strategize,
 maybe your revenue expectations seem out of reach.
 Get the tools to solve these frustrations
 and lead your team to success in 2019
 at the next level leadership live event.
 In three days, you can get the tools
 to accomplish your growth goals,
 create a culture of champions,
 control your time,
 and change the way you do business.
 Here's the transformation our clients
 have seen 8,169% net profit increase in one year.
 Gained 30 hours a week back,
 46% gross profit increase in one year,
 25% team productivity increase in eight months.
 Folks, today is the final day.
 This is it.
 Today is the last day you can save a hundred dollars
 on each ticket or 160 off each ticket
 when you buy two or more.
 So don't miss it.
 This sale ends today.
 January 29th at midnight Pacific.
 Go to crcicard.com/events and get your tail to this event
 to get the results you want in your leadership and business.
 That's crcicard.com/events.
 Folks, today we're talking about how to have confidence
 and leading your team.
 Even when there's conflict and struggle.
 Now here's why it matters.
 Your team's capacity is directly linked to your capacity
 to lead them.
 Let me say it again.
 Your team's capacity is directly linked to your capacity to lead them.
 This means that aligning actions to culture, teaching, leading,
 and having tough conversations is critical
 to your team's productivity performance and well-being.
 Now you might think, "Well, I don't see why that is.
 I hired them, they should be doing a great job."
 Listen, if you are not leading them well,
 I mean, it would be great to think that we could just hire people
 through them and to see if they're going to be a good job.
 But if you can't lead them well, then guess what?
 They're only going to operate at your capacity as a leader.
 So what does that mean?
 Big part of that leadership is tough conversations.
 The great thing is on the other side of difficult
 or tough conversations is progress and growth.
 Stuff that you need to get to.
 Tough conversations are something to dread
 until you learn about a way to have them.
 So here's what I want you to think about.
 How you think about tough conversations or how you enter into tough conversations
 has everything to do with your root system.
 Now if you have no idea what a root system is,
 go back and listen to our episode,
 understanding your root system.
 You can search that on iTunes or the podcast app
 and we'll link it in the show notes.
 It's at crystalkirtle.com/311.
 And also if you've listened to the show for any decent amount of time,
 you hear me talk all the time about the importance of understanding your personality
 style and the personality style of the person that you're talking to.
 We've got tons of free resources on our site that talks about this,
 but if you're new to the show, then you need to understand it is super important
 to understand your personality style and the person you're about to have a tough
 conversation with.
 conversation with.
 So I'm not going to dig into that stuff today,
 but that is vital.
 So today I want to focus on your approach once you have that information.
 Now tough conversations, they are one of those make or break parts of leading people,
 like in either empower and ignite team members
 or demoralize them and tank their productivity.
 The result of the tough conversation is absolutely dependent on your personality style.
 So you're on your ability to have high levels of quality communication with the other person.
 It's not the other way around.
 Now it's great.
 If the other person has high levels of quality communication, that's fantastic.
 But you can't rely on that and they probably don't,
 or they may not, which is probably a part of while you're having a tough conversation.
 So you have to understand your ability to communicate is vital.
 If you can't have high levels of quality communication, the tough conversation is going to be tough.
 Not only for the other person, but it is going to be for you as well.
 So I'm going to talk through a powerful method to get you started with this.
 And the first thing I want you to do is before you get into anything else,
 I want you to think about it.
 You have to think about what's about to happen.
 What is the goal of the meeting?
 What exactly do you need to communicate?
 What are all the scenarios or possible responses of objections that may happen in the meeting?
 How are you going to respond to each one of those?
 So I want you to sit down and write down the stuff that you're planning on happening in that meeting.
 If you don't have the stuff you're planning to communicate to that person written down,
 I can promise you this.
 And the meeting starts to go a little bit sideways.
 The moment the meeting starts to get difficult, you're not going to remember the things that you need to cover.
 So first, what is the goal of the meeting?
 What's the plan?
 Is it that you are correcting somebody?
 Is it that you need to talk about maybe something that somebody did wrong?
 Do you need to give some action steps to how not to make a mistake on something that they've done three times?
 Whatever that is, have that written down and then know exactly what you need to communicate about it.
 So it's not good enough just to say, hey, you mess this thing up over here.
 You have to actually go well beyond that, explain it, make sure that they understand what the thing is, what they've done that's wrong.
 There's so much you need to do to have a tough conversation and do it well.
 So write that stuff down and then think through what are all the possible scenarios.
 You know, what are the responses going to be?
 What are the objections that are possibly going to come out?
 How are you going to respond to all that?
 So first thing I want you to do is think through this before you ever have the conversation.
 Next thing I want you to do is look at how you approach it.
 You have to ask the question, are you in this other person on the same team?
 Are you guys fighting for the same team or are you going into this thing as a me against them?
 Us against them mentality.
 Are you going to be provoking defensiveness or are you going to be having healthy discussions?
 Now again, keep in mind somebody on the other side.
 They may not be really ready for healthy discussion, but it doesn't matter if they are not.
 How are you approaching this process?
 Are you coming into this thing already, you know, guards up, walls up, ready to get to boxing in this discussion?
 Or are you going in with the concept, the idea that I need to have this conversation so I can grow this person.
 So I can make this person more successful.
 So start by sidelines any assumptions that you have.
 As we go into conversations, especially depending upon your different personality style, you may already come into the conversation with some pretty big assumptions.
 They screwed this thing up. I can't tell you how many times I've had leaders in the past that would come to me and go, why did you do this thing?
 And I go, I didn't.
 Well, so and so sad in this and this, that wasn't me.
 I'll never forget what day I looked at a leader.
 Obviously this is way back in my younger years, but apparently I had enough gumption to go, do you want to ask me a question?
 And they just kind of stopped and got this side smirk. It looked at me and said, okay, did you do this?
 No. Okay. What's the information here?
 That doesn't even have anything to do with me. I wasn't, you know, it went into the whole explaining that I don't even know why you're coming to me with this situation.
 So guys, we've all done it. We've all, if you're a parent, you've assumed that your kid did something stupid.
 If you've been a leader for any length of time, you've assumed that a team member has screwed something up, right?
 We've all done it. You have to put your assumptions. You need to squash him.
 Do not go into a tough conversation with assumptions. Well, Chris, I've got this other person who told me this person did this thing.
 Doesn't matter.
 Go in and gain perspective on the situation.
 Start by gaining perspective from the person.
 Don't go in and set the reality. Don't go in and tell them all the things that they did wrong or all the stuff that you know that is a waste of time.
 It makes you look pretty stupid. If you're way wrong, I have watched leaders come in and just rip somebody's head off only to find out they were wrong.
 Or, rip somebody's head off, they were wrong and they still didn't find out about it.
 Because they ripped on somebody who didn't say anything and then that person just totally lost all loyalty to that leader and just it just doesn't work out.
 It ends badly.
 So start by gaining perspective from the other person.
 So ask questions to find out what happened.
 Ask questions to the person or people involved and also ask yourself if you contributed in any way. Get as much information as you can first ask the team member clarify this situation.
 So somebody comes to you and says a team member.
 I don't know. Mowd off to a client.
 Hey, tell me about the call. What happened on the call?
 Help me to understand what you experienced on the call.
 By the way, this is a great Venice event.
 Edwards, little trek here. If you've never, if you love that couch, you just throw them all back on the show way back when.
 If you feel like they're lying to you, ask them to go backwards in the story.
 They won't be able to tell the story.
 So ask them to clarify what did you experience in the situation?
 What did the person say? What did you say?
 What did this come about? Blah, blah, blah, blah, whatever. Go through all of that information.
 When you ask the team member to clarify the situation, you A, treat them with dignity.
 If you want somebody to respond to you in a healthy way, treat them with dignity.
 Treat them as a human being.
 If you immediately come in with assumptions and attacks and all that kind of crap, then guess what's going to happen.
 You're going to put them on the defensive immediately.
 So don't just don't. Even if you know that you're going to be swinging an axe 30 minutes for now, because you are 99.9% sure they did something really stupid.
 It doesn't matter.
 Get in there and treat them with dignity. You may find out that 0.1% you may find out.
 I guess I was wrong or I didn't see it this way or or or.
 So get in there and ask them to clarify. Treat them with dignity.
 And again, when you ask them to clarify the situation, be you show them that you are more concerned with discovery and solving the problem than in them being in trouble.
 Now, I want you to think about any time a leader has come in made incredible assumptions about you.
 Treated you badly. Didn't treat you with dignity. You know, swung an axe, whatever.
 And how you felt did you feel that that leader actually cared about you. Do you feel like they treated you with dignity?
 And do you feel that they cared anything about solving the problem around here? We are huge on this.
 One of our core values is we don't play the blame game. Yes, that's an actual core value around here. Why?
 Because I don't have time for somebody to have to protect themselves to defend themselves, trying blame somebody else. And, you know, we have to go through this whole
 Regameral of emotional crap just to try and figure out what happened. So for me, we're huge on solve the problem.
 In solving the problem, if it's somebody's fault, we will figure out how to help that person not do that again. It's okay. So treat them with dignity, show them that you're more concerned with the discovery and solving the problem.
 This will help them to feel free. Let me say that again, free to communicate openly.
 It's going to build loyalty like you will never believe because when you treat somebody with dignity, they see that you care about them and you're different than their, you know,
 you're going to have to do that.
 And then you're going to have to do that.
 And then you're going to have to do that.
 And then you're going to have to do that.
 And then you're going to have to do that.
 And then you're going to have to do that.
 And then you're going to have to do that.
 And then you're going to have to do that.
 And then you're going to have to do that.
 And then you're going to have to do that.
 And then you're going to have to do that.
 And then you're going to have to do that.
 Next, I want you to listen.
 Don't just hear them respond.
 Now, all of you heavy processors.
 All of you folks that have to be right.
 This needs to kind of punch you in the throat.
 I want you to hear what I'm saying here.
 I want you to listen to what I'm saying here.
 So many times you are prepared to respond.
 So many times you are prepared to fight back to defend.
 You are not thinking clearly.
 Therefore, you don't really hear what the other person is saying.
 Because you're waiting for them to get done.
 Or they say something that sets you off.
 Or you hear something the wrong way.
 Whatever it is, it keeps you from actually listening to what the person says.
 It also keeps you from hearing things that you kind of need to hear in case the person is not telling the truth.
 Or if the person is misdirecting.
 So one of the things that we do here in all of our events is that we pay attention to everything somebody saying.
 We listen to the words that they're saying.
 We watch their body language.
 All of this is to help us guide them better.
 It's not used to go against somebody.
 It's helping us to guide them better.
 It's amazing when you ask a question in somebody's response was something that isn't an answer to the question.
 It's just like doing an interview.
 What is the things that you'll discover in an interview process?
 Is if somebody is trying to make themselves better than they are, then they're going to say things that may not be accurate.
 It may not be true.
 Or they may not answer your questions.
 I can't tell you how many times sitting in an interview.
 If you're not looking at the question, you're not looking at the question.
 If you're looking at the question, you're not looking at the question.
 If you're looking at the question, you're not looking at the question.
 If you're looking at the question, you're not looking at the question.
 If you're looking at the question, you're not looking at the question.
 If you're looking at the question, you're not looking at the question.
 If you're looking at the question, you're not looking at the question.
 If you're looking at the question, you're not looking at the question.
 If your defenses are up, if you're trying to protect you, if you're just waiting to respond,
 if you're just angry and you feel like you need to walk them over the head or if they've got you against the ropes,
 then all you can do is think about what it is that you're going to say next,
 which means that you're not listening to them.
 You're not hearing the things that they're actually saying.
 And in those words is important information. So listen, listen, listen, listen, listen, listen to what they're saying.
 Now, as somebody is responding, when you get to the part in the tough conversation where you've gained plenty of perspective,
 you've heard plenty of stuff, then I want you to guide your team member to hear my air quotes self discovery of their own choice.
 So here's what I'm saying, it's amazing sometimes when I've done something wrong that I may not see it.
 I may not want to see it. I may not want to admit it.
 So when I say guide them to self discovery, you're actually going to lead them into seeing their information.
 So let's use an example of a team member showing up late.
 When you sit down with that team member and as you're going through the process and you discuss them being late.
 So I've noticed that you've been late three times this week, a couple times last week, yada, yada, yada, yada.
 Well, there was traffic.
 Okay. Now, here's the guiding to self discovery.
 So like do you know that there's going to be traffic that there's going to be other cars on your way into work?
 Well, of course.
 Okay. Now is something happening that is keeping you from leaving earlier?
 This is where they start to realize that the traffic is not their villain that they're not a victim in this situation.
 So something holding you back from leaving earlier and they're going to have to come up with a answer that's either thoughtful or responsive.
 You know, they may just react instead of thinking about what they're doing and say, well, I don't want to get here early every day.
 And you help them to see their choices or they might go, you know what?
 Yeah, I could leave earlier.
 Okay. Well, then how do we help you to do that?
 So help them to, as I do air quotes again, self discover that they're not a victim in this situation.
 Traffic didn't all of a sudden tie them down. Traffic happens.
 And their choice of what time they left is affected by that. Now, we're not talking about somebody who, you know, there's a terrible accident and it shuts everything down.
 We're talking about a situation where somebody's made this decision multiple times and continues to show up late.
 So when it comes to tough conversations, success is getting them to see their choice.
 Success is helping them to understand why they made that choice and have a plan to not repeat it.
 It's not just enough to see that. We need to now have a plan of what are we going to do?
 And if possible, it would be great if you're not the one who tells them the plan.
 So what could you do? So if there seems to be a lot of traffic lately, what could you do? Well, I guess I could leave earlier.
 You know what? I think that's a fantastic idea.
 So help them to get to that self discovery instead of you just being the one who tells them to do it.
 Quick recap, you're thinking about it. You've got your outline. You know the stuff you want to communicate.
 You've thought through the responses, the objections that are coming.
 You've really thought through how you're going to approach this.
 You're really heavily focused on gaining a ton of perspective instead of going in with assumptions.
 You're going to listen to what they have to say instead of again being ready to protect you.
 And you're also going to guide them to self discovery. Now this next piece is a piece that you don't need to use unless the person is just fighting.
 Now we've got to say you're on here. Stop fighting and what paperback.
 So if you can think about how difficult it is if you're in a huge wet paper bag to try and fight your way out, right?
 It's just difficult. And sometimes people fight like crazy.
 When they do, then I want you to focus on their choices. Now keep in mind, if they come up with something that is your fault or your responsibility.
 Like, hey, how come you didn't get this thing done by, you know, Friday?
 Well, you told me you're going to have this piece to me by three o'clock on Thursday.
 I emailed you twice. I came by your office. I never got the information. Oh, wow. You know what? That is my responsibility. I will take it.
 My bad. I will fix this. I'll put things in place. You had to get it. We're not talking about that. We're talking about somebody who you can see.
 This is their fault. This was their choice and they're just fighting like crazy.
 This is where I want you to use the choose chosen method. Now this is all about helping the other person see and understand their choices.
 What they chose, what they could have chosen, what the potential consequences of future choices. This is not.
 Here me clearly. This is not for you to abuse somebody or manipulate somebody, right?
 So instead, if you can see that they've made the choice. So let's take the being late. Well, it's not my fault that I was late.
 Well, now how many understand why it's not fault that you were late? Because there was traffic.
 Okay, is there anything that you could have done about the traffic? There's nothing I can do. Okay. What about leaving earlier?
 I do. I leave on time. Okay. This is where you would kick in. If somebody's continuing to fight.
 So what I'm seeing is is that you're choosing not to leave earlier than you have been to get here on time.
 Here is the great thing about this method is it puts the responsibility on the other person.
 And again, this is only when it's clear that it's the other person's choice, right?
 So this puts this on the other person. You're choosing not to get your work done on time. You chose to talk to that team member,
 screaming at them. You chose to hang up on the client. You chose whatever the thing is,
 help them to see that they chose it, but also put with that the consequence.
 So if you can help them to see, you know, hey, help me to understand why you chose to show up late.
 Help me to understand why you chose to gossip. Help me to understand why you're choosing to be defensive about this.
 Help me to understand why you're choosing why you chose all that information will get you a response that has to be answered to the choice.
 Doesn't mean that they're not going to try and mistreat. Doesn't mean that they're not going to try and not answer it.
 You have to remember that as well. So if they're doing that in your listening, you'll see if they start to go off on some other tangent.
 Then you can go, I'm sorry, can you answer the question I'm asking you, why did you choose not to leave earlier? Why did you choose to be defensive to that client?
 Whatever that thing is, right? So once you do that, you can start to show them the consequences.
 So here's what I want you to understand. You know, by this time as you walk through this process, it's really difficult to continue to fight.
 Once you've pointed out the choice that they made and if you're accurate, the only way they're going to fight is one of two ways that you're just wrong.
 You're pointing out something that is inaccurate or they are completely locked up in victim mentality.
 I have seen that a couple of times. I've seen it where they try to mist direct. They will keep trying to get away from the thing that you're saying.
 If you will keep coming back, now help me to understand this. Did you or did you not choose to not leave earlier?
 Help me to understand why you got here late. There was traffic. Okay, could you have left earlier?
 No, why could you not have left earlier? So you're choosing to not leave earlier? Why? What are they going to say?
 You know, my car won't start until a specific time of the morning. You have to get them to that place. They're going, okay, you're right. I could have done that. Okay, so here's what I need you to know.
 If you continue to choose to be late, then you're choosing. This is key folks.
 You have to make sure that you're saying the words, then you're choosing to get a write up. Then you're choosing to have a formal reprimand.
 Then you're choosing to get fired.
 So if you understand what I'm saying, the next time you choose to talk to a client that way, you're choosing to get fired.
 Is there anything that you don't understand about that? Does that make sense? Do you understand what I'm saying?
 So if you get fired, it's your choice to be fired. Once you've done that, it is painted it very clearly to the team member or the person.
 That their choice is the thing that's ending them up in this place.
 So keep in mind, the goal of tough conversations isn't for you to be right.
 Let me say this again to everybody who has to be right and can't be wrong.
 The goal of tough conversations is not for you to be right.
 It's to help somebody to see what they're doing wrong or to point out something that needs to be fixed or needs to be corrected.
 If you're going all about this so that you can be right, then you're going to become pretty manipulating in the process.
 You're going to become pretty controlling possibly even abusive. Don't do it. Remember what I always say.
 It's your job as a leader to make your team successful, not the other way around.
 So on the other side of having tough conversations like this, if you can do this well and you can get in there and not avoid them and not fear them and not be worried about it.
 Instead go in treating people with dignity and standing up when you need to making sure that you're being very clear with your communication and helping to see their choices.
 Then on the other side of tough conversations is progress and growth, especially if you got that person to discover answers on their own.
 Again, make sure that you think about it. Make sure that you take a look at how you approach it.
 Game perspective, listen, listen, listen, listen, treat them with dignity.
 Use the choose chosen method and remember that it is your job to make them successful.
 Now what you just listen to is a small portion of a lesson that I'm going to be teaching at the next level leadership live event.
 So hopefully this is helped you today use this information so that you can have your next successful tough conversation and as always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life and join us on the next level.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]