 Do you have a wealth mindset or a poor mindset that is coming up next?
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardos Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 Today's quote is from our great friend Rabbi Daniel Lappin.
 Pay in profit, tell you that you are supplying a need and filling other people's wants.
 They are not the motivation for your work.
 They are the validation of your work.
 Thank you so much Rabbi Lappin for that.
 Today folks, we are talking about mind sets, wealth mindsets, poor mindsets.
 The thing you need to know is that money is in greedy.
 Money isn't a loose of money isn't fair or unfair.
 Money isn't status.
 Money isn't a bad thing.
 Money is what we make it.
 We get hung up on that last one sometimes, especially if you grew up in maybe a religious background
 that told you that having money was a bad thing.
 Having money is not a bad thing.
 That's not the big issue.
 Money is a piece of paper.
 It's a chunk of metal.
 It's our mindset that determines our relationship with it.
 We're going to talk about that today.
 But before we get to that, let's talk about what's standing in the way of your business
 goals.
 Episode is brought to you by the next level of leadership live event.
 Maybe you sprint through your days exhausted.
 Balancing the workload of 10 people.
 Maybe you're always putting out fires rather than having time to strategize.
 Maybe you're revenue expectations just seeing out of reach.
 Get the tools to solve these frustrations and lead your team to success in 2019 at the
 next level of leadership live event.
 In three days, yes, three days you can get the tools to accomplish your goals to create a
 culture of champions to control your time and change the way you do business.
 Why are those also incredibly important?
 Because when you get those things down, you can have transformations like this.
 Here's just four different transformations from clients that we have received that have been
 to the live event.
 8,169% net profit increase in one year.
 15,30 hours a week back, 46% gross profit increase in one year, 25% team productivity increase
 in eight months.
 Guys, that's just a few people that have attended this event.
 So if you would like to have transformation like that right now, go to cristacrote.com/events
 and get your tail to this event to get the results you want in your leadership and business.
 Alright, today we are talking about two different mindsets around money, poor and wealth.
 And I can tell you I have had both poor mindset growing up and a wealth mindset later on in life.
 Now let's talk about the poor mindset.
 When we talk about this, what we mean is that money owns you, whether you have it or not.
 You don't have to have money to have a poor mindset.
 It sounds obvious, but you also could have a lot of money and have a poor mindset.
 You can be stuck in this place where again, money owns you, money controls your decisions,
 it controls your emotions, you're focused on the next paycheck or stressed about money or
 hyper focused on obtaining things.
 Your lifestyle revolves around money and status through money.
 You maybe have emotional purchases that you make.
 You maybe concerned about losing money, not having it.
 That if it went away, you would be back at a place that you didn't want to be.
 So you could have a lot of money instead of poor mindset.
 The thing is, is that money is your security.
 And along with that comes a scarcity mindset.
 There isn't enough that you can never have enough that this idea that someday if you have
 this amount of money, then you will be okay and you will not worry about money ever again.
 There is this fear of losing money, items, things, stuff, people in your life.
 All that comes down to a great lack of faith.
 For those of us that are believers, faith should be in God providing our every need.
 Now that does not mean you don't get out there in bust your butt.
 I have busted my butts since I was 14 years old.
 It doesn't mean that you don't work hard.
 It means that you trust that your faith is not in your ability to provide.
 The whole commerce system is God's commerce.
 He's the one who's created it.
 So I love what Rabbi Lapin talks about.
 So when you have a poor mindset, you believe that when it comes to money, money is like a pie.
 And if somebody has a really big slice, then that means that there is considerably less
 for you.
 Everybody else is suffering.
 Everybody else is struggling because somebody has a bigger slice of pie.
 Guys, that's not truth.
 That's not the way that money works.
 In fact, as Rabbi Lapin points out, money is more like the candle on top of a birthday cake.
 If mine is lit, crazy enough, I can light yours.
 I can help you.
 I can help others.
 When we get in this poor mindset and think that money is, if somebody has a lot, then that
 means that I'm going to have a little, then you don't understand how commerce works.
 You don't understand how you can actually impact other people with what you have or by not having
 going in making things happen.
 So if you're rich, you've taken money away from me.
 That's the belief that's the poor mindset.
 Along with that comes entitlement.
 Well I deserve because I'm breathing life, I deserve somebody to take care of me.
 Somebody should have to pay for me.
 The government should have to pay for me.
 Folks, if you have not learned this by now, the government doesn't actually own any money.
 They don't have money.
 You have money.
 They take it from you and then use it.
 So this concept that the government is supposed to take care of people and people don't
 have to work and the government's just going to provide, guess what?
 That is a crap concept.
 The only thing that's happening is the people that are paying taxes are paying for stupid
 programs that we shouldn't be paying for.
 A lot of junk that we shouldn't be spending money on.
 And we're also paying for the people that choose not to work.
 Now that is not to say anything about those who cannot take care of themselves.
 It's to say about those who feel entitled because they have a poor mindset.
 When you have a poor mindset, you believe that you are owed something.
 You believe that somebody is supposed to take care of you.
 A poor mindset also believes that it's all about fairness.
 Well if you have five dollars, I should have five dollars.
 Doesn't matter that you worked three times as hard as I have, I should still have the same
 amount.
 I can tell you, I have not seen a 40 hour work week since I was 20.
 I don't know what it's like to just work a 40 hour work week.
 Why?
 Because I believe that God has called me to do the things that I do and I'm busking my butt.
 And I doesn't mean that I sacrifice things that shouldn't be sacrificed in the name of
 working.
 I work hard, but I also do it well.
 So I'm able to take care of my work and I'm also able to take care of the responsibilities that
 I have in my life.
 What an amazing thing is is that all my life I've been working hard in watching people who choose
 not to work hard, who feel they deserve the same exact thing that I have.
 So if I choose to work 60 hours in a week and they choose to work 30, they expect to have
 the same results.
 They expect that they should get paid the same.
 They expect that they should have the same house or cars or be out of debt because why?
 They worked 30 hours.
 It's not about fairness.
 If you want to have, go and get.
 Go and bust it and go and work for it.
 A poor mindset says, it doesn't matter how many hours you work, I can do whatever I want and
 limit myself, but I should have the same thing that you have.
 Because of a poor mindset, what you tend to see is people living paycheck to paycheck when
 you don't have to.
 In other words, what comes in goes right back out again.
 And in most Americans lives, this is most of Americans, what comes in more than that actually
 goes out.
 Yes, most Americans actually spend more than they make.
 That is a poor mindset.
 You will also see with a poor mindset, hoarding.
 People will hoard stuff.
 Because of that scarcity, that fear, again, that lack of faith, that fear of loss.
 There was a study that was done, and this isn't about hoarding.
 This is just about, it will point to another poor mindset.
 There's a study that's been done every year with millionaires, decamillionaires around central
 park.
 Some of the questions that they ask are, what's the minimum amount that you can live on?
 What would happen if you lost money?
 What would happen if you only had so much?
 And they even have some folks who claim to be Christians around, you know, decamillionaires living
 around central park.
 I've not permitted judge their salvation.
 But there's an interesting response from the Christians.
 The Christians on average that are decamillionaires say that they could not make it unless
 then, drum roll please, $25 million, $25 million, $25 million, $25 million, these are people
 that have incredible amounts of money and have a poor mindset.
 How is that even possible?
 Because that's what happens when money owns you.
 These are people who are finding their happiness and their value in money.
 That's what a poor mindset is.
 What does a wealth mindset look like?
 A wealth mindset?
 God owns you.
 You happen to have money.
 Money does not dictate your choices.
 You have a healthy respect for it.
 It doesn't represent who you are or your status.
 There's something well beyond this world.
 You don't even have to be a Christian.
 Just understand that money isn't your greatest happiness.
 So you recognize that there is something greater, greater value in your life.
 For those of us that are believers, we have our hope in the next life.
 We have our hope in the transition from this world to the next one.
 We have our hope in Jesus.
 But I'm telling you, there are a ton of Christians, tons of Christians with poor mindsets.
 A wealth mindset is understanding.
 God is the one who owns me.
 Money is something that I use.
 It's a tool.
 It's something I use to make things happen to purchase things, to make a stronger business,
 to put food on my table.
 But a wealth mindset says, I completely understand that God is in control of what happens in
 my life.
 If he wants to take it all away, he can do it in a heartbeat.
 If you want to bless me with more, he can do that in a heartbeat.
 Take a look at Solomon.
 Who was Solomon's focus?
 Solomon went ballistic.
 God gave him a ton of wisdom.
 If you know much about Israel and the land bridge that was the trade routes that it was,
 he was able to tax the daylights out of a ton of people, make a ton of money, become incredibly
 wealthy, and then go after a whole lot of not great things in his life.
 A lot of personal desires.
 Towards the end, what he says is, hey, that's what you want, go after it, go ballistic,
 go get it.
 But understand it's all vanity.
 That any moment, God can reach down with his pinky and pump your life and it's all gone.
 Now that's not exactly how Solomon said it, but it's paraphrase.
 It's pretty close.
 At any moment, God is the one who blessed Solomon with what he had.
 God's also the one who hurt Solomon because of his own personal choices.
 God has that ability.
 Why?
 Crazy thing about God.
 He thinks he owns you.
 I'm just going to go with that.
 He does.
 Because he does.
 Right?
 So wealth mindset says, God owns me.
 This isn't my story.
 A poor mindset says, this is about me.
 A poor mindset says the world revolves around me.
 It's all about me.
 It's about what I do, what I get, what I obtain.
 A wealth mindset says, I'm here because he chose for me to be here.
 I'm here because I'm part of a bigger purpose.
 This is not my story.
 So I'm not going to treat it as though it is.
 So some examples of what I meant by a wealth versus poor mindset.
 I grew up with a poor mindset.
 There was many years in my life growing up where we were poor.
 We didn't have money.
 And I can tell you it made an impact on us, made an impact on how we saw things, how we experienced
 things.
 I remember the days as a kid of eating government cheese.
 Now if you are old enough like me and you ever experienced that, that was some good cheese.
 I remember the days that the churches would drop some groceries on our front door stuff,
 even though we did not darken the door of their churches.
 I remember the days of believe it or not.
 There were some days of washing my clothes out on the front porch through an old timey washer,
 you know, with a little ring you're on it and hanging that stuff up because we couldn't
 spend money on the electricity.
 I remember those days.
 I remember how much it affected me by not having.
 I was training to hopefully make it into the Olympics and the day that I discovered how much
 it cost and how much, you know, there was no possible way that we were going to be able to
 afford that.
 That was a dream that was dashed.
 That was something that hurt.
 I remember the day that my best friend told me how much because he was going to make it onto
 the team.
 His family had money.
 They put him on the team.
 And I remember the day he turned to me and said, Chris, you do realize this is how much it cost.
 This was before sponsorships, by the way.
 So you had to actually pay your way to get into the Olympics.
 And I remember how much that hurt and how painful that was.
 So money has had an effect on me in my life.
 I grew up poor.
 I grew up with a poor mindset as well.
 When I turned 18 years old, I went ballistic.
 I got a visa, a master card, and an American Express.
 Let me tell you, those are the days that to actually have credit cards.
 You also had to have money in the bank.
 They secured giving you a card by knowing that you actually had money in the bank.
 And I had my American Express card taken away from me in a VHS store.
 Yes, that's how long you go.
 That's what's a video store because I did not realize you were supposed to pay that thing off
 every single month.
 Talk about embarrassing.
 Talk about painful.
 That's the mindset I grew up with guys.
 I lost it.
 I've been working since I was 14 years old.
 I have been saving.
 I have been putting money away.
 I got debt free paid off my house back in the early 2000s.
 I've not actually had consumer debt since 2001.
 I've not had a mortgage debt since 2005.
 I've not had debt.
 Period of any kind since the beginning of 2005.
 And I have guess what?
 Money.
 However, I want you to know that even with having plenty of money, I still had a poor mindset.
 Why?
 Because after what I experienced growing up, I got to a place of going, "Boy, I can't
 ever lose what I have.
 I can't go backwards.
 I can't end up back there again where I have to rely on the government to give me
 cheese."
 And then, God hit me upside the head.
 He smacked me upside the head with the life of Paul.
 It's an amazing thing one day as I was going through the Bible.
 I was reading about Paul and I had been over this a thousand times.
 The part where Paul tells Timothy, "Hey, do me a favor.
 Bring me my cloak in my parchment."
 He's in jail.
 He's been in jail.
 He's been in jail multiple times.
 He's had the daylights beat out of him.
 And he owns what in life?
 A cloak and some parchment papers.
 Now, this is where God met me and said, "Who are you trusting?
 You?" or me.
 That's when I realized I was trusting me.
 When you take a look at this life, there's an amazing thing.
 Could I live right now with a cloak and some parchment papers?
 Absisting can lootly.
 But he would or not.
 I could actually live that way.
 Do I want to?
 Oh, gosh, no.
 Of course, I don't want to.
 The difference between Paul's mindset and my mindset was Paul knew that if he had nothing,
 he had Jesus.
 He had heaven.
 He had eternity.
 So having stuff in this life didn't matter what mattered was the calling on his life.
 Paul, with literally nothing except for two things, had a wealth mindset.
 He had a mindset that what he was gaining, what he was going to have was a bajillion times.
 That's a technical measurement.
 A bajillion times better than any stuff he could have hoarded.
 And he stuff he could have purchased.
 Any amount of money he could have earned.
 As I saw that and I read that and God met me in that moment to say, "Who are you just
 a man?
 Is it about you or is it about me?"
 That's when I realized that my mindset was still focused on not losing the stuff that
 I had, not losing the money that I had.
 That is what shifted me from a poor mindset to a wealth mindset.
 From that point going forward, stuff hasn't ever meant that much to me.
 Don't keep me wrong.
 I love the stuff that I have.
 I praise God for the stuff that I have.
 I praise God for how he has provided for me that he has allowed me to continue to grow
 business that changes lives.
 But my mindset has gone from I've got to make this happen and I can't lose it.
 Two, he owns me.
 I know that he owns me and he's the one who provides or takes away.
 So I'm going to put my trust in him.
 His wealth is not money.
 His wealth is him.
 His love.
 His peace.
 His desire, his pursuit for you.
 When we take a look at a story, this is one that a lot of people misunderstand a piece of
 it and that's the rich young ruler.
 The rich young ruler who came to Jesus had a poor mindset, even though he had a lot of wealth,
 he came to Jesus and said, "How do I get into heaven?"
 I've done everything and Jesus turns and looks at his heart and sees that money and
 stuff was his God.
 That was the thing that ruled him.
 That was the stuff that owned him.
 And Jesus says to him, "Sell all your stuff, give it to the poor and follow me."
 Now, here's the piece that we miss out on because we don't have an Eastern mindset.
 A Middle Eastern mindset, we have this Western culture mindset.
 He walks away sad.
 We think that's just it.
 He's done.
 He's just pissed off that Jesus said that and doesn't want to give it up.
 And so he went back to his life.
 Well, here's what you need to know when it comes to a Middle Eastern mindset.
 He came to Jesus as a rabbi.
 Rabbis were given the authority to bind and loose on earth.
 So when a rabbi, if you go to a rabbi and you ask a rabbi, what you're supposed to do,
 and he tells you, you're now bound to that.
 How did he go away sad?
 Because he most likely did exactly what Jesus said to do.
 And the problem is, is that his heart was not there.
 That's the sadness.
 If he didn't like what Jesus said, and he didn't believe that he was a his rabbi and that
 he was bound by what he said.
 He just go, "Ah, forget that.
 I'm out."
 But instead, Jesus gave him a command to get rid of the thing that was more important than
 God in his life.
 He comes spend some time with God in little change your heart.
 Sell all that junk, sell all that stuff that owns you, give it to the poor, give the proceeds
 to the poor, take care of some people, come follow God, come be with me, and I promise you,
 I'll change the desires of your heart.
 That was difficult, and upsetting for the rich young ruler.
 Hopefully, he did exactly what Jesus said.
 So here's my question, do you have a wealth mindset or a poor mindset?
 The wealth mindset seeks to multiply with money.
 It sees it as a surplus and invests it, and uses it to bless others.
 A great example of that would be the parable of the talents.
 So here is a parable where Jesus is talking about a guy gives five talents to one guy,
 two talents to another guy, and one talent to another guy.
 And a talent back then was a measurement of money.
 And the guy with the most talents goes out and doubles it.
 And the guy with the two talents does the same, the guy with the one talent, the guy with the
 poor mindset, berries it in the ground.
 So he's been given this thing to use this thing correctly, to use it wisely, to do something
 with it, to use it for good, to multiply it, to put it to work, and like so many Americans,
 instead of doing so, he buried it in the ground.
 He didn't use it.
 He didn't focus on multiplying it.
 He didn't focus on making more of it so that God could use it in the ways that he wants to.
 What do God do?
 He gave it to the person who busted it.
 He gave it to the person with the wealth mindset.
 Why?
 Because he knew that I was going to continue to have a wealth mindset and understand that money
 isn't the happiness.
 Money isn't the thing that owns him, God owns him, money is just a tool.
 Poor mindset immediately sees a surplus as an opportunity for consumption and to upgrade their
 lifestyle.
 What a difference.
 A wealth mindset uses money as a tool for long-term goals or growth.
 This is money to create systems that continue to generate value on their own.
 A poor mindset is all about short-term returns, hours for dollars, resources invested without
 an immediate return are resources wasted.
 A wealth mindset seeks to build relationships built on trust, shared values, and mutual respect.
 People with the wealth mindset help others and cultivate relationships with no expectation
 of anything in return.
 A poor mindset, ask your back, you scratch mine.
 What's in it for me?
 So folks, here's your weekly challenge.
 Here's the challenge a lot of happy today.
 Think about where you have a poor mindset instead of a wealth mindset.
 What are you doing with the resources you've been given?
 Look over your financials for 2018 and ask the question, do you have a wealth mindset or
 a poor mindset?
 Take a look at how much you came in and how much went out.
 What's reflected in your spending?
 What are your patterns?
 Ask yourself this.
 How can I be better this year?
 If you have a wealth mindset, well done.
 Great job.
 What else can you do?
 If you discover, oh my gosh, I have a poor mindset.
 I don't even know it.
 I didn't have a clue that I had a poor mind.
 I thought because I had done so well, stockpiling money.
 I thought, well, that must mean that I have a wealth mindset.
 Nope.
 All the lack of faith in the fair is what jacked that up.
 So if you discover that you have a poor mindset, what can you do differently to change that
 this year?
 What can you do with your resources?
 What can you do with your spending?
 What can you do better this year to live with a wealth mindset?
 Folks, if you've not subscribed to this podcast, please do that wherever you listen to the
 podcast.
 Thank you.
 [MUSIC]
 [MUSIC PLAYING]