 How you can make stronger strategic decisions in business.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 We are about to dive into a topic that has serious implications for your bottom line,
 your team's productivity and your ROI in business.
 In today's episode, you're going to learn about how to make stronger decisions,
 how to make quality decisions based on the current landscape of your business.
 One of the things that we help people see all the time is how they make decisions.
 In the early days, people would come and go, "Oh, well, we already know how we do that."
 And then a day later, they're like, "We had absolutely no clue."
 We had no clue how much fear was getting our decision making process.
 We had no clue how much pride was getting our decision making process.
 We had no clue how much we were trying to make this person happier,
 not make this person upset or whatever, or how the decisions we were making were not based on growth.
 Those are just a couple of examples of things that people don't realize are happening in their strategic decision making.
 So the thing you need to know is that strategic decision making is learned and taught.
 You're not born knowing how to gain high quality perspective or make excellent strategic decisions.
 So depending on the leadership you've had, you may even have some bad information on decision making.
 So we are going to talk about that kind of stuff today to help you to get to making better decisions.
 So today's episode is brought to you by the next level leadership live event.
 Folks, lacking strong decision making can be a big piece of what holds your business back.
 What's standing in the way of you and your business goals.
 Maybe it's the overwhelm that you experience every day.
 Maybe it's the struggles with leading team members.
 Maybe it's not getting the right clients in the door.
 It could be a ton of things.
 Here's the thing that we want to do for you. We want to help you solve these frustrations and lead your team
 to success in 2019. At the next level leadership live event, you can get the tools to do that.
 In three days, you can get the tools to accomplish your growth goals to create the culture that you need
 that produces champions. You can get the information to get you out of the stuff you should not be
 focusing on as a leader. Listen, there are so many things that you're focusing on as a leader that you should
 not be doing. You need to kill the leadership crazy cycle. Number one lesson that we push into
 our clients here to get them freed from that so they can make huge changes in their business.
 You can get this information on how to do this and change the way you do business at the next
 level leadership live event. Here's just some of the transformations our clients have seen.
 Eight thousand one hundred sixty nine net profit increase in one year. That's just from the next
 level mastermind clients. That's just from the clients that have gone through that process. Collectively
 over eight thousand percent increase in one year's time. Leaders that are shifting and learning how to
 kill the leadership crazy cycle that are getting 30 hours a week back to lead their people to success.
 And having the tools to do it successfully. Not just sitting there dwelling the thumbs going,
 "Well, what do I do now?" Actually leading people to grow their business. 46 percent
 grows profit increase in one year. 25 percent team productivity increase in eight months. These are the
 things that our clients are experiencing, guys. You can have the same stuff. So registration is open now.
 Go to crystalqrido.com/events and get your tail to this event to get the results you want in your
 leadership and business. That's crystalqrido.com/event. All right, now how to make
 stronger strategic decisions in business? I had a next level mastermind call with a client recently
 where he was seeing the effects of poor decision making in his business. Now they're a pretty large company.
 They're in the engineering space with thousands of employees. But what we're going to talk about today
 happens across all industries and in all businesses. So here's what was going on inside of their
 business. Their leadership and their team were overwhelmed with the amount of workload coming in.
 I mean, it was a lot. Another thing is they had the money plenty of money to build to buy and to grow.
 But they only have so many team members and they are paid by the hours. Just kind of get this idea
 of what this looks like inside of this company. So what do you do when you have more work than you
 have people? Here's one of the leaders in the business said, if we keep getting more business,
 we can throw more overtime to employees and make it work. So now I'm not going to give the exact numbers,
 but here's what happened. Thousands of hours of overtime across multiple departments. So think about this.
 This is a very big company. They spent thousands of hours in overtime, not just one area, but many.
 The team members were working like crazy tons of overtime every single week. So one of the leaders in
 side of that business, our clients came to me and said, help me to understand, do you think this is smart?
 My first question was, are these just team members who are passionate about what they do and loving the
 opportunity to work overtime? The other question I had is this team or these teams because it was actually
 multiple departments, are they being overworked? How do you know? The other questions I asked,
 can you scale this process of allocating work to overtime and have healthy growth in profitability?
 Next question is utilizing current team member overtime saving the money? The next thing
 is it a smart overall financial decision. So how do you decide the best actions to take in
 the best strategy? What is the process for strong decision making for this and other scenarios?
 I'm going to walk you through the questions the leader in the scenario needs to ask to get the answers
 and the perspective. So let's walk through this scenario. What I want you to see though,
 through this example, this mini case study is the power of strong quality decision making. So here are the
 five questions to gain perspective needed to make the right decision in this scenario. So the first thing,
 are we doing everything with excellence? You know, thinking through the productivity, thinking through
 the finances? So you've got to evaluate the effectiveness. Are there productivity mistakes happening
 in this question? Yes, there were. Why were they happening? Well, a result that you've probably
 already jumped to? Why were mistakes all of a sudden happening in this situation? We have thousands of hours
 of overtime. We have people that are making more money than they've ever made. We're putting out a whole
 lot of money into these team members. We're paying them time and a half, maybe double, maybe even more
 than that. Why are we having productivity mistakes? What's the answer? Well, his answer was because people are
 being too tired. People are working incredible amounts of hours as they get toward the end of their
 day. They're not as effective as they were at the beginning. If they're coming in tired the next morning,
 they're not as effective than if they came in and they didn't work 14 hours the day before, right?
 So the money side of this isn't actually solving the mistake problem. We're paying people more money
 to work more hours to be more tired and they're making mistakes. So the question in that I ask is,
 are we measuring how long things should take? How long should it take to do the very thing that we're
 producing, right? And what we find out is it's actually taking longer because of the overtime
 to produce the very things that we're making. If we only paid people a regular day and they had a
 good, you know, came in, worked as hard as they could, but weren't overworked, then amazing thing
 happened. They were able to produce more stuff. They were able to get things done in a shorter period of time.
 There are studies. Now I do not agree with what some of the ending results were with some of these
 studies on what their suggestions were, but there are a lot of studies that were done in Europe.
 I can the days that showed that the longer time somebody has to work, the less they will get done,
 because they know they're going to be there for 10 hours, 12 hours, 14 hours. It's the very same
 thing we see with leaders. We know that a lot of leaders, if they are already set in their mind, that they
 are going to work today for 12 hours, that they're there. They know they're coming in at 7 and leaving at 7
 or whatever the thing is, that they just know that they're there for 12 hours, then getting things done
 doesn't have as great of a priority in a time frame. It's one of the things that we push people to do
 is to actually break things up in priority and time frames so that they can knock stuff out. We have tons of
 folks in next level of mastermind that are like, I have accomplished more in three months than I do in
 most years because of the way we set that stuff up. So the question you have to ask is, if people are
 actually doing less with more hours, why? What's the problem here? How do we solve this? Are we doing
 everything with excellence? Well, of course not because we're not producing the same amount. We're actually
 paying more money for team members to do less work. So if I pay them, oh, I don't know, $15
 an hour, $20 an hour to do their job on an eight hour day, if I'm paying them $20 bucks an hour,
 and now I'm paying them $30 an hour and they're actually getting less stuff done and having mistakes.
 What's our effectiveness? Is this a smart decision? So you have to ask yourself, are we doing everything
 with excellence? Take a look at your productivity, take a look at your finances, and evaluate that
 effectiveness. Number two, what is the productivity? Are we looking at the actual productivity?
 Or are we just doing so much stuff that it seems as though we have kicked up our productivity?
 When you measure it, what are you discovering? And do team members want the overtime and the double time?
 So, you know, for the people who don't really want the overtime, but feel like they have to do it,
 or it's being pushed on them, now we're losing our effectiveness because we have a tired person trying
 to do work, and they don't even want to be there. What's their productivity when somebody doesn't want
 to be there longer? If somebody comes in and, you know, when you have thousands of people
 that are paid hourly, is there the possibility you have some folks that are just there for a jailbie?
 Yes, of course, absolutely. So is pushing them to work more hours smart? What is our productivity
 look like? Are you measuring that against that person? What's their effective rate? For the people
 who do want overtime, there's going to be those folks, there's folks that want more money, they
 don't have a problem working more. What is their effectiveness? So taking a look at their productivity,
 what is it? What's their effectiveness? They may be thinking, you know, I can still come in
 to do, you know, four extra hours at night, and you know, with half my productivity, if you're going
 to pay me twice the amount, because the money is really exciting, you know, you get, they're going
 to give you 100% of themselves. Let's just assume that they do for $10 an hour for eight hours a day,
 and then they're going to give you 50% when they've gotten too tired, but you're still paying them now
 $15 an hour or $20 an hour. So just do the math. Yes, you may have people that absolutely want the
 overtime, because they want that money. Is that smart for your business? What's a productivity look like?
 This, you know, if this made sense, then big companies, Chrysler, GM, or Sadie's, they would all be
 doing this, right? If it made sense, then you would have these huge massive companies doing it, but they don't.
 There's a reason that they have three shifts, you know, that they run three different shifts throughout
 the day, because people can only put in so much productivity for what they're being paid for.
 It doesn't mean that their hearts aren't there. We work beyond 40 hours, many times,
 here, there's some team members. They work 40 hours. They go home. There's some team members that
 staying work a little bit further and put more into it. Why are they doing it? They're doing it at a
 passion. They're not slowing down their productivity, right? Because it's a, I want to do this thing
 as opposed to a, oh, you're going to give me more money? Well, then I guess I can stay and do less productivity.
 The third thing, what is the productivity or the profit per piece? This is another way for you to
 measure is this decision smart. So look at what it takes to create the widget, whatever the widget is.
 You know, what goes into it, how much profit margin is in that specific piece? How much time does it take
 when you, you know, when somebody is busting it to make that keyboard or whatever, how many keyboards
 do they get when they're done working eight hours compared to 12? So we're still looking at a lot of the,
 how are we making this decision? But breaking it down into pieces to find out, is the decision strong?
 Is it smart? Is it a great strategic decision? So, you know, are they working 150% more?
 If they stay to create more keyboards? So if they do, I don't know, 12 keyboards and eight hours,
 what are they doing in 12 hours? Have they kicked it up? If not, you're now paying a
 hundred and fifty percent. So let's just say in eight hours they do 12 keyboards. And then they work
 four more hours and in that four more hours they stay at the rate that they're doing and do six more.
 Now you have just paid a hundred and fifty percent labor for the same keyboards. Think about this folks.
 If they don't do nine keyboards in those four hours, you're now losing per piece. This is not wise.
 This is not a great financial decision. This is not great financial decision making. You're now losing
 money per piece. Another great way to just measure the smartness of your decision. What is this
 strategic decision costing me? So so far we've looked at three pieces. The first thing are we already
 doing everything with excellence. Evaluate the effectiveness of what you're already doing before you
 ever take a look in this specific situation before they ever took a look at doing overtime. They should
 have asked the question how effective are we right now. The second thing, what is the actual productivity?
 So how are we being effective? What is our productivity? So you actually know what you can measure against.
 The third thing is what is our profit per piece, per service, per whatever it is that the thing that you're
 doing. So if we do kick this up, we do make people more tired. We do ask to produce more. We pay more money out.
 What is that looking like? Is our profit going up? Or is our profit taking pretty quickly?
 In this situation, the profits taking isn't it? Because now we're spending 50% more per piece for people to
 crank out the same things. That is if they are keeping up with what they did during the day.
 Well Chris, they probably worked harder after the eight hours. Uh huh, sure they did.
 Oh absolutely. They come in knowing that they're going to work 12 hours today. They do their normal work
 that they do every single day in the first eight hours and then they kick it up on notch in the last four.
 Guys, I'm telling you, study show. Most people if they know that they're going to work more
 hours than normal, they slow down their pace. They pace out their day into those hours. So not a smart strategic decision.
 Number four is their turnover. Are we losing people? In this, we discovered,
 yep, absolutely. Some folks were getting burnt out. Some folks were just getting tired of it. Some folks
 felt that the only thing that the business cared about. And I'm not saying this is everybody. This is
 but this is something that helps you to make smarter, stronger strategic decisions. You're taking
 in gaining perspective. So you don't have to have a ton of people that you're having turnover with,
 right? But if you are, why? The answer was the same. They didn't want to continue to feel like they
 had to work overtime. They didn't want to feel pressured to work overtime. So they're losing people.
 Is that a smart strategic decision? Not at all? Number five, what could we do with fresh people?
 So if we brought in eight new people and all they did was work eight hours. How much more productivity
 could we get out of these eight people, rather than keeping eight people in overtime? So think about it.
 If you take somebody who's working eight hours a day and you pay them time and a half or double time
 for another four hours, you're already spending extra money on those same people. If you took all of that
 money above and paid new people to come in, what if you just brought in six? How much more work could
 six people do? So now if you had eight people already and you bring in six people and now we're up to 14.
 But we're paying everybody for eight hours a day? What could the productivity be with fresh people?
 Folks that are ready to go to work. Folks that are ready to produce in the eight hours. Folks that you can
 hold accountable to what the other people have been able to produce again going back up to number one.
 What's our effectiveness? Are we actually already being excellent in being effective? Are we producing
 the max that we can in eight hours? If you could hold these new people to that same accountability,
 you are now getting more stuff done at less cost? The math just works. Well, a course,
 Crest, everything you're saying is just so basic. Oh, really? How come we make decisions like this
 in every area of our business? Because we don't think through the perspective. We don't gather the
 perspective in all these different areas. How do we make stronger decisions? We actually dig in and learn.
 We discover. We don't put our heads in the sand. We don't just go, "Wow, just throw more money on it.
 That's going to make it better." We actually go through in gain eight ton of perspective.
 This is just one scenario. We deal with this stuff all the time. Why?
 Because most leaders have not been taught how to think strategically. Most leaders have been taught.
 Solve the promise fast as you can. As we go through next level life, one of the things we talk about here
 is that in a Western culture, whenever we see our problem, our opportunity, our solution,
 and a Western culture, our thing is go. Make it happen. Solve it right now. In an Eastern culture,
 they will spend time gaining perspective, gathering information, getting as much stuff as they can,
 looking at it from as many directions as they can before they make their decision. Why?
 Because it's smarter, stronger strategic decision making. So what do we do on a daily basis?
 Solve the problem. Hey, go get that done. Hey, go fix that. There's something wrong. Go do it.
 Instead of pulling back and taking in plenty of great information and asking the questions that we need to
 be asking so that we can make the best decisions. This is just one area, guys. This is just one
 scenario. And of course the questions are going to be different on most every scenario. You're not going
 to ask those specific questions when it comes to a culture issue when it comes to gossip. So getting back
 to this specific scenario, here's where we get into the map. Think about this for a second.
 For 22,000 hours. If we spend 50% more to get the same productivity, if they continued to do the same
 productivity while they're working overtime. What's the average overtime, right?
 It 22,000 hours. How much money is that? So if it is $12 of overtime, that's $250,000 more
 than if they actually made a better, stronger decision by gaining a ton of perspective and bringing in fresh
 people and paying them the same base. Well, Chris, what about spatial issues? Great. Go to a
 different shift. Well, you can come up with all kinds of excuses, guys. $250,000 more for the
 same productivity. And again, when I dug into some of the questions what we were discovering is they
 weren't getting the same productivity. They were getting less productivity with increased mistakes.
 So $250,000 on 22,000 hours of people was actually hurting them. They were losing money.
 They were losing team members. They were having to reduce stuff and spending money in hard costs for
 the stuff that they were making because of mistakes. So when we started this episode, I started it by
 asking, what do we do if we have more work than people? An easy answer is, well, if we have team members
 that want to work overtime, let's give them the work. That way, we're utilizing human capital, we already have.
 We're not training anyone new and we're, you know, they're already a great team member. On the
 surface, it can look like a great decision. But after you gain some perspective, after you
 ask the right questions when you find out how it might be damaging your culture, how it might be
 hurting your productivity and costing you a quarter of a million dollars more for the same work being done,
 if it's a motivated team, by the way, that wants to work overtime and is being highly productive.
 That's a different story. But on the surface, it looks like a good decision. What we discover when we
 spend time really gaining quality perspective, really digging in and finding out, are we making
 smart decisions? What we discover is we're actually hurting ourselves in the long run.
 Shoot, we're hurting ourselves in the short run on this situation, right? But we're definitely hurting ourselves
 in the long run. You have to understand, not everybody is taught how to gain quality perspective
 and make quality strategic decisions. So folks, hopefully this has helped you today to take a
 hard look at how you make strategic decisions. And obviously, there is so much more to it than this,
 come to the next level leadership live event, get this stuff changed in your business. But it's
 help you to get there. As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business,
 change your life, and join us on the next episode.