 [Music]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show folks.
 Today we are talking about increasing your team's productivity by fostering creativity.
 We've got some great information we're going to share with you a fun story as well.
 First let me say, being a leader is an incredible privilege folks.
 There's a lot of great experiences that come with it, but there can also be some incredibly tough stuff.
 So today we've got this question from Bruce thanks Bruce for asking the question he asks,
 "What does it look like to be respectful to a first generation owner operator?
 But try to continue to lead the business as the second generation.
 All while the first generation is battling cancer, currently winning,
 but then dealing with deep levels of depression.
 Wow, great question Bruce and a difficult one I completely understand how tough that can be to try and navigate those waters.
 Here's the thing, if somebody has a summing that the first generation is not bent through next level life,
 then there's a lot of difficult things that we can assume.
 Most of those first generation folks, which means that if there is a second or third generation,
 this is somebody who's a little bit older.
 There is one huge assumption and that is that most of their identity came from their business.
 You're talking about somebody who's older, different generation than you are obviously,
 because you're the second generation.
 The older generation, the fact that they were an owner operator or a business owner entrepreneur,
 which means that there's so much that they built up themselves in that business,
 that they've fought, they've battled, they've busted their butts,
 they were the one who was making the sales and sweeping up the floors and cleaning the toilets
 when nobody else is around, right?
 So this is somebody who has busted their butt to make this business successful and to make it to a second generation.
 One of the things you have to know, understand and I believe give honor to,
 is how much they made the business, the success that it is.
 They were the ones that made it possible for there to be a second generation to take over the business.
 So the first thing is understanding that they probably get their identity or did get their identity from the business.
 The second thing is honoring that place of, hey, you made this thing happen.
 I greatly appreciate that.
 Then the third thing is that understanding of what they're going through physically.
 If I am somebody who got my identity from my business and I'm struggling now in life physically with something like cancer,
 even if I'm winning, the deep levels of depression can be coming from many, many areas.
 The not feeling needed, the not feeling significant anymore.
 The, hey, I built this business, my identity was in it, you know, I've raised my family,
 but now here I am somebody who is not running the business anymore and I've got this stupid disease that's destroying my body,
 or has been, where's my significance right now?
 For me, I think it is great to continue to honor that person.
 I'm not saying that this needs to be a, you go do this every week, go remind them how great they are and what they did.
 But I think doing some sort of honoring of what their contribution to the business was.
 I think that would be a huge piece.
 And if he's still in the business, I think creating a significant, creating a role of significance as well.
 You know, a lot of times when you have a first generation business owner, it's great when they have gotten older to really hone in on what their greatest worth to the business is.
 A lot of times that great worth is them teaching a lot of people inside of the business, the ins and outs of running the business.
 You know, the pieces that are really difficult to train, like it might be the sales component, maybe they really understand the sales component because of the industry.
 Or maybe it's a great opportunity for them to go and get more business and bring it in by creating, you know, big relationships.
 Something that doesn't require them to sit down and focus on administrative tasks like crazy.
 Instead, it gives them some good significance inside of the business and that allows you to continue to run the day to day in the operations.
 So I think great respect as you're already asking, honor the contribution that they have had to the business.
 That might even end up as a celebration if you've not done this already.
 And then constantly understanding where they're coming from, helping them to see that you understand what they're dealing with and you understand the depression.
 The depression is probably coming from, like I say, a multitude of areas, one, the lack of significance if they're experiencing that too.
 The heavy heavy chemicals that they're doing any chemo or whatever they're doing something I'm sure to about a cancer.
 So that's probably affecting it.
 And then three heavy inflammation inside of the body, which, you know, so much of depression is absolutely connected to that heavy levels of inflammation.
 So there's probably a whole ton of stuff going on that's causing them to feel just crappy.
 You know, so honor that respect that, have people celebrated and I think that will go a long, long way.
 If there is confusion in the process of, hey, you know, we're still trying to run this business. We've had a hand off and they are jumping in and trying to change stuff.
 Then that's going to have to end up in a sit-down discussion of let's talk through this.
 What's the best thing for the business? What's the best thing for growth? What's the best thing for communication on the team?
 So if that becomes an issue, then we need extreme clarity to make sure that we make the right decision.
 Thanks again, Bruce, for asking that question and thank you all for asking these great questions on Facebook.
 There isn't a template or a magic pill for leadership. It's growing you as a leader.
 And it's about getting the best perspective you possibly can and the best tools possible as well.
 Now, today we're talking about a concept that is key to your team's success and your success as a leader.
 What is that? Creativity. As we dive into this topic, we're going to take a look at one of the most successful companies of the last few decades and how creativity made them successful.
 And what we can learn and implement from them.
 But before we do that, today's episode is brought to you by the next level leadership live event.
 I've never seen a leader that's had everything they wanted out of thousands of leaders I've coached. Most are probably a lot like you. You wish you saw great productivity and less drama from your team.
 You wish you didn't spend your energy putting out fires or that you had more time to invest in your family and things that you enjoy.
 And you wish that you felt more equipped to lead your team to success. The only thing holding leaders back from their results they desire is having the right tools.
 And you can get those tools at our next level leadership live events.
 So if you're young, old, new, experienced, struggling or really successful, this event is for anyone who is ready to learn from 25 years of best practices that get proven results.
 It's not about short-term fixes. In three days, I'm going to teach you how to have sustained revenue growth to generate greater productivity from your team and get immediate momentum towards the results you want.
 It's going to be detailed, practical and loaded with how to's from the lessons we're teaching.
 Our clients have seen an average of, listen to this, 46% increase in growth profit in one year's time.
 46% of growth. 46%. That's a lot, folks. These clients run normal everyday businesses and your business can have the same level of success.
 So if you're ready to get those results, go to Chrissacurdo.com/events and get your tail to this event and invest in your leadership and business. That's Chrissacurdo.com/events. I look forward to seeing you there.
 So there's a great book out that is called Creativity Inc. It's the Pixar story.
 There's a couple of things that stick out about the story. Number one, the creativity and innovation inside of Pixar that took them from a nobody. This was just this teeny tiny little company to a juggernaut.
 Number two is the contrast of what was happening between them and Disney at the time, which is fantastic to see Disney really stalled out for a season with leaders that were playing it safe.
 They were not pushing creativity and risk taking in the team. While that was happening, little old Pixar burst onto the scene with the type of creativity and calculated risk taking that makes the jump from a great team to a great
 business. Folks, creativity matters on your team. Creativity isn't limited to art to music to design. It's how your team makes decisions takes risks and gets their work done.
 Part of increasing your leadership skills and getting your teams to take good risks is learning how to cultivate their creativity.
 When team members do take risks, there's more productivity. They produce more. They're trying more. They're trying harder.
 When they feel comfortable in that place that they actually can take risks, then they will produce more. They're going to do more things that are that may be out of their comfort zone.
 They're not going to be stuck to, oh, I can only do A, B and C today. They're going to try and figure out how to do D, E, F, G. I mean, they're going to try and figure out how many more things that they can do because they feel comfortable with taking those risks.
 If they feel completely shut down or if they feel like it's, you know, we're supposed to be incredibly safe, then they will only do what's necessary to get the job done.
 When they take risks, they come up with greater ideas. When you are only focused on getting the least amount done, then there's no reason to think beyond the thing that's right in front of you.
 When you're taking risks, you think past that. You come up with better ideas. You come up with things that are more creative. You come up with ways of making a product or a service better.
 If the focus is just get the thing done, it'd be safe. Well, that none of that ever comes into the picture.
 When team members take risks, they contribute more to growth and the bottom line.
 So one of the things I always talk about around here is how you shut down productivity when people are afraid.
 Fear will cut your productivity in half.
 Negativity will cut your productivity in half. We have some great studies that we're going to be sharing at the next level leadership live event talking about this about how much productivity and how much money it affects on your bottom line.
 How much not leading people out of that junk and out of fear and out of negativity can keep your team stuck.
 So folks, the sooner you get to a place of realizing how important it is to cultivate creativity on your team, you will start to affect ideas.
 Growth, bottom line.
 Now, I could tell you, I didn't think I was creative.
 I used to say all the time, "I'm not a creative. I'm not artistic. I've never picked up chicks by picking up the guitar and singing a song.
 I've never been that creative, right? And I've always looked at it as the people who are creative are the ones that are musically inclined or they are artistically inclined.
 I remember my mom still has this plaque that I wrote a happy birthday to her on and painted a squirrel that it does not even look like a squirrel.
 And I'm pretty sure I misspelled the word squirrel. No, I misspelled the word "Burke" that's how young I was.
 So that was like five years ago. I remember putting this plaque together and just going, "I suck. I'm so not artistic."
 And that kind of set a tone in my mind stuff like that. That's not the first time I did that.
 I was probably out of no five, six, seven years old.
 But my whole life I used to think, "Well, I'm not that creative, because I'm not artistic."
 And creativity doesn't just come from the place of being musically inclined or artistically inclined.
 It's talking about creating ideas, creating processes, being creative with the way you look at stuff, being creative with the way you solve problems.
 When it comes to that kind of stuff, I'm incredibly creative.
 It's what I do, right? This whole business that we have requires a ton of creativity.
 If you come through next level of life or a strat planner, that's stuff what you will see is a lot of creativity in the process.
 So much so that it's exhausting to come up with all of this information, right?
 To find this stuff, to gain quality perspective.
 So that is something I absolutely foster in my business is using your brain being creative,
 cultivating that creativity in the team so that they can be more successful.
 Now, if you're going to grow your business, it's vital to understand that when you are the only one being creative, you're wasting what your team has to offer.
 So ask yourself this question, "Do you have a culture that fosters creativity?"
 In the processes, in solving problems, in coming up with new ideas, if not, guess what? It's not your team's fault.
 Leaders stifle their team's creativity. All the time, why? They don't realize they're doing it.
 They're like, "If you're anything like me, and thought that creativity really is assigned to the guy who's picking up the guitar and picking up the chicks by singing songs,
 then you're in the same boat as me." It wasn't until I realized how much creativity is an every aspect of business that I realized how to foster it even more.
 So until you recognize that and realize how important it is, it may be stifled inside of your business inside of your team.
 Now, it happens when you expect people to just be creative. That's one of the biggest problems you can have is when you just expect people to be creative.
 Instead of fostering the culture. There's a really good chance. So if you're expecting it, there's a really good chance that people inside of your business came from the same type of culture.
 They came from a culture where somebody just expected them to be creative or didn't know how to foster it themselves.
 So most leaders assume anyone they hire has this ability, right? You should be able to solve problems.
 You should be able to come up with creative ideas. You should be able to help me to grow the top line, the bottom line, anything that we're doing here, and you should be able to do it in a creative way.
 The problem is you can't will somebody to use their creativity.
 No matter how much you want to, no matter how much you hope that they get there, no matter how much you suggest that they get there, until you lead them, especially according to their personality style, you're not going to get it.
 Unless they just come with it naturally. And if they do come with it naturally, then guess what?
 If your company doesn't foster it, then they will probably start to shut it down very quickly.
 So what we're going to be talking about is how to do that according to personality style. Now, folks, if you have not discovered your team's personality styles and gotten their profiles, get it done two day.
 Go to Chrissacrilo.com/door, get the disks for your team, get the disk plus where you got the disk and the values, the videos in there, all of that stuff get it done.
 It is huge on the success of your team, your communication.
 And like we're going to talk about today, your creativity. So while you need creativity in most aspects of your business, I'm going to use some examples that focus mainly on task or project ideas.
 So here, a few quick ways to foster creativity on your team by personality style. So we're going to start with the high D whenever we're looking at the disk, we usually start with the D because we go DIS and see has nothing to do with the priority of importance or anything like that.
 But looking at the high D personality styles. When you have high D's, high D's process with lightning speed. If you look at the rate of speed of processing from personality styles, these are going to process the fastest.
 Eyes are going to process the next fastest, then S is and then C's. So D's can process in lightning speed, C's are going to take a good amount of time. There's usually a thought process behind this that says,
 If you're bringing new stuff to a high C or to a high S, give them anywhere from 10 to 20 minutes to process through something. You will see the shift when they have processed through everything.
 What does it take them longer? Because when it comes to quality of information or quantity of information, definitely the quantity of information, but usually quality as well.
 C's are going to be the ones that get the most. And then as we go backwards down, who's going to get less than that is going to be the S's, then the eyes and then the lightning speed processors, the D's.
 So the D's are going to end up with a sound bite of information. The C's are going to end up with, you know, three pages in triplicate of information.
 So the first idea that a high D has is usually the idea that they're going to move forward with. They've processed very fast. They've got something that's popped into their mind.
 They're not going to spend a ton of time being creative because they would rather shoot from the hip.
 It's that gut feeling that happens with the high D. Now when I talk about that, it's not a necessarily a bad thing. A lot of times these are pulling that, you know, shoot from the hip that gut feeling is coming from experiences that they've that they've had in the past.
 And sometimes it's just not sometimes it just seems like the right thing and they move with it. So a more mature high D is going to gain a little bit of perspective on that idea first before they move on it, right?
 They're not just going to go with the very first thing that they think somebody who doesn't know how to do that usually is going to tend to just go with the very first thing that they come up with.
 So when you're leading them make sure that you're teaching the high D to reverse engineer their outcome, the outcome that they're looking with go to them and ask,
 "Hey, what is the outcome you want to see? What should this look like? What's the ultimate result?
 What's the key result that you're trying to get through or get to with this process?" And now let's think through back out of that, you know, reverse engineer that to where's the potential failures?
 Where's the potential problems? So many times a high D will go, "Oh, here's the outcome I want."
 And they can think that far, they can think ahead where a high C is going to walk through the processes getting to that outcome, the D can jump straight to the outcome.
 Here's what I want. Okay, the problem is is because they go straight to that end they don't think through all the potential failures.
 So instead, help them, foster their creativity, but go, "Okay, great, let's say that's the outcome that you want. Where are all the potential failures? Where are all the ways that that can fall apart?"
 I've let my team know that usually when we're talking through a new idea, a new process, I am always going to be looking for all the potential failures.
 And that's not just a thing for high D's. I'm a very high I'm a high S, but that's a process for me that I will look at what are the potential failures?
 Where can this thing fall apart? And the more time I will spend on that, I will be the person who's usually coming up with how it is going to fail and how we can solve it.
 So if you're reverse engineering, especially with somebody who processes with lightning speed, what's the outcome you're looking for?
 What are the potential failures as you find those, what are the solutions, then they will be able to come up with a great process.
 So it doesn't mean that their first idea is a bad one. It's probably just what that they've not thought through or thought out completely.
 When they do, when you do foster that creativity in their brain, then it helps them to see, you know what, that first idea wasn't the best one.
 So let me look at this one over here. So if that first idea wasn't that great, and they've thought through all of this of, you know, words, the potential failures, words, the things that I can do to solve this stuff, and then they look at the outcome and they go,
 Oh, well, that's not going to give me the best outcome, then it will guide them to a different outcome.
 Enough, you do this enough, and then they will start to think a little bit more on the front side and come up with better outcomes. High eyes, high eyes usually have no problem being creative.
 I have got a building full of high eyes here. We have a lot of folks that have eye in them. We are never shy of ideas.
 They can come up a high, can come up with a dozen ideas in a nano second, right? Half of them may even be about what you asked, all the high eyes get that.
 A lot of times a high eye can come up with stuff, and it has literally nothing to do with the thing you're asking because we can tend to repertoire.
 So I know I am a high eye. So they're usually their issue lies in focusing their creativity. They've already got a great amount of creativity.
 If the problem can be just focusing it in the right direction. So when you're leading them, since the high eye doesn't struggle with being creative,
 you're helping to focus their creativity on the outcome you're looking for. So we're a D can jump to the outcome very quickly. You can see, this is the outcome, but then they're missing a lot of the pieces in between.
 The eye can focus on a lot of those pieces and not really focus on the exact outcome because their ideas are, here's ways we can do this that are great, that are fun, that are exciting, that will inspire people.
 Eyes are great at inspiring people, right? So they can see all of the pieces in between and still miss that outcome. So help them allow them to have their brainstorming session.
 Then have them whiteboard their idea to the desired outcome. So if you're able to show them, all right, great stuff, here's the outcome I want, or if you can even go further on that and help them to actually explain to you what they think the outcome should be.
 See, if it aligns with yours, if not then help them on that process. But if you allow them to whiteboard that and get their creative ideas flowing, then what you're going to get is more efficiency and more productivity out of their ideas.
 Funnel all of their creative ideas towards the effectiveness of what we're trying to accomplish, right? So if you allow them to run with just the creativity, it may take you three, four times longer because the creativity is actually going to take a lot of time to produce.
 Doesn't mean that they've got bad ideas, doesn't mean that their ideas aren't right. They may have the right ideas, but once we have that creativity, let's start falling towards effectiveness and make sure that we're pointing in the direction of the outcome that we're looking for.
 The more times you do that, what you're going to find is, they are going to bring a lot of the out of the box ideas. They're going to bring stuff that makes your thing better, flashier, fancier, more fun, more inspiring, whatever that is.
 So help cultivate that creativity by guiding them towards that outcome and with effectiveness. High-s personalities. Now high-s is focused their processing heavily on how decisions will impact others.
 High-s are very creative. What may hold them back is fearing how their ideas might hurt somebody, fearing how their ideas might not be good enough. Fearing how their ideas might disappoint you.
 So they would rather you the leader be creative and they would rather support you in this situation. It's so much easier for them to do that. Interestingly, one thing I have noticed is a ton of high-s is are incredibly creative by themselves.
 It doesn't impact anybody. I've noticed a lot of high-s are musically inclined. Artistically inclined are incredibly creative like craftsy types of people, right?
 But when it comes to a leader pressing on a high-s to be creative, a lot of times they're going to shut down, especially if they do not have a leader who is supportive.
 If they have a leader who is demanding, if they have a leader who chops their head off or responds in anger or pushes them beyond their comfort zone, they're not going to come up with anything.
 They might have seven ideas in their brain and it's not coming out. They're not going to allow it to because they're afraid of what's going to happen. They may get pummeled in this process.
 So you have to think of the personality style that you need to cultivate this creativity. When you're leading them, lead them in knowing there is no failure in the creative process.
 Some of you guys, that's very difficult to do. If you sit in a meeting, discussing things, you're not going to work. Guess what? You have just made failure a part of the creative process.
 It doesn't mean that you let people go on rabbit trails. You can rain things in, just make sure that people understand there's no failure in the creative process.
 You can have a high eye who has 17 different ideas. Listen, a lot of these are moving on a direction of something else. We can talk about that topic at another time. Let's say focused on this. So you may have to rain some people in. Again, the days you may have to go ahead.
 That was really fast. Help me explain to me how that's going to work reverse engineer this. So keep in mind. It doesn't mean that you allow the creative process to just go willy-nilly. You need to give them the freedom to be creative without the fear that there's going to be a negative impact.
 If what they fear is the moment they say something, you're going to shut them down or tell them it was not a good idea. Then they're not going to respond. You have to understand that.
 To motivate them, start by asking them to come up with as many ideas as they can within a timeline. Now, the timeline works both ways.
 If you are expecting a high-ass to give you an answer in two minutes of asking the question, you're failing and you're failing them. They have to have process time. So just understand that.
 Give them a timeline. But also let them know that we can't spend an hour on this.
 We've only got so much time that we can think through this. So help them motivate them by asking them to come up with as many ideas as possible. If you can do this, but for a brainstorming session, you'll be setting them up for considerably more success.
 Because they will have time to process the same thing with the high-sees. But if you're doing it inside, then give them a minute. Give them some time to come up with some stuff, allow them that opportunity, and allow them to not feel pressured like they're about to fail.
 Let them know that there is no bad idea. And you just want them to come up with as many ideas as possible. Then start looking through the ideas and seeing what you can work with.
 See what works. See how creative they're being in the process. You may have to do this multiple times before they feel safe enough.
 And if they don't feel safe enough yet, then guess what? That speaks to your leadership.
 The goal is to get them to feel safe. So if they don't feel safe enough yet, it may take you multiple times to do this. That's okay. Just keep going until you help them to feel safe.
 Once they do what you will discover is they will not have a shortage of ideas. Moving on to the high-sees, high-sees need two things to be creative. A lot of time and a lot of details.
 Often times, they try to do it on their own rather than being collaborative in the process. So if you think you have to understand, they need time to process. Period.
 If you are anything other than a C, then you've got to realize they need more time than you.
 Right? So if you're not a high-sees, asking a high-see to come up with ideas right away is ridiculous. It's pointless. They don't process that way. It takes them some time.
 The great thing is they will come up with a heck of a lot more details than anybody else.
 So understand that, but they also need, they also need you to give them a much bigger picture of what it is they need to be coming up with. The creative ideas that they need to be coming up with.
 Because if they don't have enough of that information, then they're going to give you very small input.
 And they're going to usually not work with others on this process. They're usually going to just go in their corner and come up with what they can and that's it. So leaving them, make sure that you're asking a lot of questions to foster their creativity by giving them information.
 If you don't give them information, you're not fostering their creativity. So ask questions like does this make sense. Do you have any questions? Do you, what do you need to complete this? You know, what information do you need to come up with the best information?
 Make sure that you give them the margin you need into a lot of creativity to kick into full gear. So if you're looking at a high seed it'd be incredibly creative and all you give them is five minutes just forget about it.
 One time, once you've done this give them time to go and process. So set them up for success. If you want them to be creative, do not do it on the spot. You know, again, same with the high assets as much as possible high seas high asses.
 I'm not going to foster a lot of creativity on the spot. In fact, I can't tell you how many times in a team meeting when a new question is introduced and you know, somebody's looking for brainstorming.
 You know, how many meetings I've been in over the decades or people come in watching teams come into this building and watch the process where a new idea is our new question is introduced and you can watch the S is actually moved to something else.
 I've watched people on teams start working on something and it's like, hey, what's going on? Because they already know they can't take part in this conversation.
 They're not fostering creativity by allowing that to happen. Set them up for success ahead of time. Give them tons of information. Make sure they have every question answered or any question that they have asked and then give them time to go work on it.
 Now again, these are just a few quick tips that you can implement right now to be successful, but to be successful with them, you must know your team's personality styles more importantly, this is going to take practice.
 This is something you have to start today. You can implement this right now, but you're going to have to practice it. The more you practice it, the better you will get the better they will get in the process as well.
 So you begin to implement this, the sooner your team is going to be more productive, they're going to be more creative, you're going to get more input, you're going to get better ideas, you're going to get better focus on the top line and the bottom line, the whole business.
 So you're going to be able to understand that you care about them being a part of the decision making process. So there you have it folks next week. We got a fantastic interview. I cannot wait for you guys to hear it. So don't miss it next Tuesday.
 You haven't already. Make sure you get subscribed so you don't miss when we release new content. Make sure you're getting the notifications and not missing it in the noisy world of social media and email. Go to iTunes or the podcast app wherever you listen and hit subscribe.
 Well, hopefully this is help you today. As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]