 Well, folks, on the show today, we are talking with the phenomenal Tom Ziggler about how the choices you make beginning today can help you achieve balanced success significance and a legacy that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks. Question for you. Can you achieve massive change without massive upset? Yes.
 It actually starts with focusing on building good habits in seven key areas identifying life killing bad habits that cause dissatisfaction and implementing positive habits, making one small choice at a time through a sequence of easy to follow steps helps build lives that are more productive, more fulfilling and more meaningful.
 These positive decisions impact our success, change our significance and the legacy we leave for future generations. Now, this is phenomenal stuff that we're diving into today and we're doing it with a brilliant guest and that is Tom Ziggler.
 So welcome to the show, Tom. Tom, so good to have you on. Chris, it is awesome to be here and well, I couldn't have paid you.
 Appreciate all those kind words. Well, I appreciate you being on the show, brother. Tom and I go back along the way.
 I had the absolute pleasure of knowing Tom and the pleasure of knowing his dad Zigg. I know a lot of our followers are big Zigg fans such a phenomenal legacy.
 Zigg was such a great guy. Tom, you've always been a phenomenal guy and I just love the legacy that he's left that you're leaving that you guys are continuing on.
 So, so glad to have you on. Well, this talking through all this stuff. Awesome. Thank you.
 Well, for those of you, if you've been under a rock and you don't know, Tom is the CEO of Ziggler Incorporated. He shares not only the last name with his father's executive, but he also carries on his philosophy, which is simply,
 you can have everything in life. You want if you would just help enough people get what they want. That is something we live by here. I've operated from that for decades.
 Our focus here is change lives and it's always been correct. Since then, we've helped a bunch of people and the crazy thing is we get all the stuff that we want.
 So Tom joined the Ziggler Corporation in 1987, learning every aspect of the business as he climbed from a working in the warehouse, which is how dad does it isn't it?
 To sales, to sell it our promotions, to sales management, and then on till leadership. So he's done a great job carrying the legacy and again, as I've said, we're honored to have him on the show.
 So Tom, quick question. We're talking about your new book, choose to win, transform your life one simple choice at a time, and this is just powerful. You guys have such a phenomenal wealth of information on having a great life on setting yourself up to have a great life.
 It just doesn't stop all the books, the vault, everything that you guys got going on. So tell me why you chose to write this book.
 As always that, well, hopefully there is sometimes not, but a lot of times there's that whitening bolt that hits a few years ago, I was in Melbourne, Australia, and this guy in the crowd right before break, I love Q&A.
 That's my favor, you know, Chris, we know we know we'd rather help but people need help with it. So I always ask for questions and this guy says, "So Tom, what's the fastest way to success?"
 And nobody'd ever asked me that question before. It was always, you know, what are the keys to success or what is successful people do?
 And so I had the momentary deer in the headlights look, and I said, "The fastest way to success is to replace bad habits with good habits."
 And then we went to break, and I didn't think anything of it, Steve McNight, my friend in mentor who had me there, he introduced us an exegment, and he says,
 "Okay everybody, do you hear what Tom said? Get your pen out, write this down." Tom said, "The fastest way to success is to replace bad habits with good habits."
 And I literally like, I wrote it down because, you know, somebody smart said that, all day long, I'm thinking about that quote, because I love quote, which you know, dad was so famous for all his good words.
 So I go Google at that night and nobody had said it. Then I had about 30 plus hours of airplane time between, you know, Melbourne, you know, or when in Sydney and Brisbane and Papua New Guinea and LA and Dallas.
 And I went into the seven areas of life that we've been teaching for 40 years, we call it the Wheel of Life.
 And I said in each area of our life, if all we did was replace a bad habit with a good habit and we did that often enough, what would happen?
 And it was truth, right? It was such a simple idea. So that kind of became the bedrock, the cornerstone flow to the book and it just grew from there.
 Well, I'm glad to know that you were down in Melbourne and Australia, shout out to our folks down there for the first time we went down and did an event down there in Darwin this past year and just phenomenal people. We love them like crazy.
 Did you go to the beach in Darwin? Yes.
 Did you see the signs like saltwater crocodile, the meat, sharks, and the electric fish that will kill you? I'm like, I'm not getting in.
 There is nothing in Australia that doesn't kill you. We were literally on a tour and this guy parked underneath this huge pine tree. Now I grew up in Tahoe, all pines, you know big pine cones, all that stuff.
 And he literally showed us one little piece of the piggas, the pine cones here, if they fall and hit you on the head, they kill you. I'm like, there is nothing that does everything is deadly in Australia. It's just crazy.
 But yeah, we were walking along the beaches and all these signs and they're not worried about them like, so they're like as long as you stay far enough that it can't get to you. I'm like, but that's like 10 feet. I don't have to be 30.
 But again, just phenomenal people down there. So it was fantastic. We love them. Great folks.
 Hey, man. What makes choose to win different than the rest of like leadership books or business books out there? What is the difference between this and what everybody else is saying?
 Well, dad said they said never give a promise without a plan. And one of the areas that our genre of motivation gets about wrapping is people will say, just be motivated. Just be happy.
 Yeah, he sees that. Chris, now that you've heard that, you can do it, right?
 Yeah. And you're like, wait, what are the steps to go and do it? And so in the book, you know, it's kind of in thirds where the first, this is what I believe until you have a compelling why a reason to purpose something that gets you excited in the morning.
 Until that becomes a priority and you spend time uncovering that man life is hard. The obstacles are going to knock you down. You're going to get setbacks.
 The business you started isn't going to go right. The career path there on is going to get a detour. Somebody's going to get, I mean, all those things happen.
 And so I said, okay, so what is the process? And so real simply, it's identifying your purpose or why. And so we talk about that.
 And then there's a great commercial endow as they play around that. It's a law firm that represents child custody cases and they represent men.
 And this is what they say. They say that the attorney comes on and he says, you know, if met too many men who made career their first focus. And now that they have a lot of money, all that money won't buy back their family or their health.
 And so the point is that, you know, we can get gun hol in one area of life, but what's the point. Right. And so this concept is, and I borrow one of dad's famous little funny quotes.
 I call it the termite philosophy. He said, you know, when it comes to damaging homes, hurricanes and tornadoes get all the publicity, but turbines do so much more damage.
 And they take little bit of bites. And so the concept was, it's not one radical change that changes my whole life. It is a little bit of termite size bad habit that I replace with a little bit of termite size good habit.
 And then I go around the seven areas, which are mental, spiritual, physical, family, financial, personal and career. And I start looking in each one of those and I start replacing the little bad habits with little good habits.
 And then before we know it, we are completely new human being.
 And so that's kind of the idea is we got to start with, you know, my purpose, my why, what it is I want to accomplish. And then the plan has got to be sustainable and doable.
 And the cool thing is, if you're got a bad habit and you're replaced it with a good habit, the results come a lot of cases instantaneously.
 But it builds and so now every day you're getting progress towards where you want to go.
 When I said at the top of the show, you know, your dad, I remember him, you know, being at our place and talking about, hey, listen, if you just help, he would say it over and over. If you just help enough people.
 And it was one of those things that was just that God smack for me of get that. And people get it people hear it and they understand.
 But like what you're saying, if that's not your habit, there are 10,000 supposed thought leaders out there that are trying to teach everybody how to have the next magic pill.
 You know, here's how to make the next million dollars. Here's how to have add six figures in 30 days, add seven, everything out there is so heavily focused on success being the measure of the dollar.
 And the thing I loved about, you know, you, your dad, everything is that's not your focus. The focus is an on, make it about the dollar.
 The dollar is going to come. Focus it on your why. Why am I doing what I'm doing? You know, like the attorney says, if you have a ton of money, great, if you've lost your family, what's the point?
 So that has been for me decades that focus of just love God's kids help them as much as you can. And for the longest time I've had, like I put the little, you know, my screens, they've run my laptop. I've had on there. What is your why?
 So that I don't ever forget looking at that thing every day just going, why am I doing this? What's my purpose? And it helps me to lead my team into what our company. Why is?
 Because there are days I'll be honest once in a great while something will crop up and it's like, oh, let me go after the idea. Let me go after that.
 That thing can make some money and praise God pretty quickly. It's a shut that down, change lives. So I've had to work on that for a long time. And one of the things you talk about in the book is that getting to your why is great, but you've actually got to spend time on it.
 You've got to commit to it and you talk about committing 15 minutes a day to it. Is that something that's realistic? Are people able to do that? Do they stick with it?
 Yeah, and what we really get into, I call it the perfect start. You know, one of my business partners, Howard Partridge says, you know, the shortcut, the shortcut is to find somebody who's really successful and just copy them.
 Right. And I think what he's really saying is, you know, what are the habits that lead to success and evidence of that is the overwhelming number of people who are highly successful.
 And in Ziggler, we talk about three words. We talk about success, significance and legacy. And what I'm trying to do is to get people to focus on legacy.
 And so if my why is legacy, ultimately, if my why is legacy not only generational to great great great great grandkids, I'll never know, but also eternally because we have as a Christfaller, we have that perspective as well.
 So legacy is in that context. Success is having more the good things of life. It's, you know, having what the world would say, hey, that's good, you know, you can feed your family, you can go on to, you can do all that's fantastic.
 And dad said that success is the maximal utilization of the abilities that God gave you. It doesn't get much stronger than that.
 I mean, it's like you get a, you know, I was reading and you know, the parable the talents and the master leaves the three servants talents. And so Chris, if I applied that to you, the master comes to you and says, Chris, what did you do with the talents, I left John.
 Never asked that question. Right. And so we're in this social media Facebook world where we judge ourselves on the best fake image everybody puts out instead of being stewards of what God's given us.
 So significance is when you help someone else be do or have more than they thought possible. I love that, right. So significance. And this is the business you and I are in right when we pour into somebody.
 And then they report back man, look at the result that I got, you know, thank you. I mean, so when we have success success and happiness go hand in hand, a lot of it's circumstantial significance and joy go hand in hand.
 I can be having a rotten day, I could be in the middle of the flu. And if I get an email from somebody saying, hey, this really changed my life, I can experience joy in the middle of my bad circumstance legacy is one step further, legacy is when you teach and transfer the wisdom, the knowledge and God's wisdom to people who didn't make good decisions or ripple through eternity.
 And so we start with the why and we say, okay, I want to leave a legacy, there's these things that I know I'm designed to accomplish.
 And then we commit a little bit of time, I like at the first part of the day, which is what I call the perfect start asking myself this question is what I'm about to do going to take me closer to or further from my goal or objective.
 And so if I know my why my purpose, what I'm built for and then I have my goals, the things that I want to accomplish, then those every time I accomplish one of those, it should take me closer to my why.
 Right.
 And so why wouldn't I spend 10, 15 minutes at the very beginning of the day, you know, this just happened, of course, you're good friends with Rabbi Lappin and he's amazing.
 So I connect all this, but somebody asked me, because one of the things I'll talk about in the book is, you know, we've in our health, right, the physical component.
 It's it's enough sleep, it's the right nutrition, it's the right hydration, it's the right movement, and somebody asked me, they said, do you have a pre sleep routine?
 Well, duh, you know, I know about it, I've researched it and I kind of sorted it and then a few days later, I'm reading because I like to study Hebrew and it talks about Samsung and Delilah.
 And she's deceiving him, you know, and he's tricking her back and finally at the very end of the passage he says, we've my hair into a loom and it says, Samsung and a loach, the Philistines are upon you, right?
 So, and then the next verse he tells her the truth cuts his hair and he awoke well in Hebrew, the word for a loach, there's two Hebrew words and the first example with the loom, a loach had two vowels in it.
 The second vowel is spiritual and it means that when he awoke, God Spirit was in him. The second vowel awoke, there's only one vowel and the one that's missing is the spiritual one and God Spirit was not in him.
 And so the explanation is when we have one vowel and how we wake up, it means we literally yon and say, what have I got to do today? I don't know.
 The other way to awoke is two vowels which means I have a purpose, I'm designed for greatness, right? God's got a plan and so I'll wake with God Spirit in me. And so here's the connection. So the reason we have a pre sleep routine habit is because we have a purpose waking up for in the morning and it changes everything that little things.
 So these little habits individually they don't make much sense but when you suddenly connect the reason I'm going to get eight hours of sleep is because I have a destiny to fulfill and a legacy to leave.
 I love that that is so powerful. I did not know that about the two different vowels and they're having one taken out of there.
 So what advice do you have for folks that are big dreamers? They want to wake up with a purpose or they've got big dreams and they don't know how to achieve it. What do you tell them? What advice do you give them?
 I think I was reading Mark Patterson and he talked about when we were little we dream a lot. Guys the limit, no boundaries. And as we age and mature and get more logical, the less we dream, what makes God happier?
 Well obviously the dreaming because we can't do it alone. The bigger the dream we can't do it alone. So first off if you've got big dreams, I'm going to encourage you that those dreams require God's help.
 He's smiling. So number one is man you're on the right track. Number two is okay and I love this concept. I wish it was mine but I heard somewhere that a trees fruitfulness depends on its rootfulness.
 So what fruit do you want to be the natural output of your life? Jim Brown said don't wish it was easier wish you were better. And so in this metaphor or the tree, the roots of your life of what you've got to nourish.
 If you put poison in the roots the fruit is going to die or it's going to be poisonous. And so if I'm dreaming big and I can see the fruit of my dream, what type of person do I have to become to where the dream is the automatic fruit of my life.
 And so that's where when I talk about the seven choices we could make, the first choice is our input. And so if you have a dream you want to achieve you've got to determine choose the input that you want the nourishment of that root.
 And then the second choice is the spiritual which is the character and the integrity and the spiritual qualities you've got to develop to produce that fruit. And so it's great that you have a dream and then you've got to go back to have this other. This is a nerdy quote, but I love it because I'm a nerd.
 And so the attitude is a reflection of character and character is a reflection of habit. So what comes first character or habit. And I think it could be either or.
 Two year olds, they don't have, they don't know how to share. Right. So we teach them how to share. So we teach them the habit. Why? Because if they learn to share, then the character fruit is going to be generosity compassion, you know, all the things that that we want.
 And so when you have the big dream and you take the choice of putting the right input right on those hills or water the habits that I can create in my life that build the character qualities and the skills necessary to produce that fruit.
 You are speaking into next level of life. I mean that is the basis of what we do in that event is taking a look at what you're allowing into your roots.
 You know, there's certain things obviously like you just pointed out, you're going to be taught things as a kid. There's as a child.
 You're supposed to follow your parents. You're so you know, we should have great parents that are leading people to great character.
 But as you continue to grow some of the things that people don't realize is how much they're letting in and it's affecting that fruit. It's creating. They don't like their fruit. They don't like their outcome.
 But they haven't realized how much, you know, what is buried in that soil that they keep pulling up into their fruit and they do it on a regular basis.
 And again, I love the quote, you know, I mean, that's once you get that habit, you can't be surprised by the character that you have again to your dad's comment.
 If you build the habit of taking care of people, your character will align with that no matter what.
 So when you look at, doesn't matter if you look at finances, hiring people, relationships inside of your family, our leadership team did a trip to Israel.
 How powerful. Wow, crazy powerful.
 I don't hear leadership teams.
 Brother, I'm telling you, we're going again.
 I'll talk to you not because we're doing at least one if not two trips.
 And you would let we do this heavy intense. It's like four or five different spots a day.
 I've just heavy Bible study.
 So many Bible-busting things like I love that you're studying here because you start to figure out the things that we teach incorrectly here.
 Like, oh, that didn't even mean that. Talk it about Rabbi Lap and years ago, he had pointed out something on, we're doing it in every together.
 And I'm like, how in the world did I not know that?
 But one of those things is in the scripture and I believe in Matthews talking about having the good eye.
 And what we read is, hey, don't look at pornography. Don't look at bad things.
 And what they're talking about is generosity.
 If your eye is good, your body is good. If your eye is bad, your body is bad.
 If you don't have a generous eye, then you're not going to have a generous body.
 So that character comes from building that habit.
 You talk about in the book about how people can just coast along in the slow-linic mediocrity that the only time I love this,
 the only time they change lanes is to avoid an accident or after they've had an accident. Talk to that.
 What's that like that survivor mode? Why do people stay there?
 This goes a little bit to the financial stuff in the book and the how to.
 There's other people better than me, but I've noticed that people really don't get their life in order.
 And so either one of the two dees happens a dream or disaster.
 It's usually disaster. It's usually, you know, you're looking out your window and they're telling your car the repo man's there.
 Something about this.
 But there's also the complacent lane of mediocrity where we just settle settle settle.
 And we operate as a small fraction of our capacity.
 You know, my personal mission statement is to create the environment that will allow you to become all the God created you to become.
 That works at home, that works in business, it works on stage, it works on, you know, sitting on an airplane next to somebody.
 It's a high standard.
 And so your clients, doesn't matter who it is.
 So I love it. It's like my own accountability partner. I'm like, oh yeah, I said that then.
 And you know, and you write in a book, it's even more, you know, it's like, oh, we got to live up. So the challenge is some people they can't dream.
 It's like they've been hit and squashed so much by life that, you know, I was with the company one time and they were trying to motivate it and pull you and I said, what's his dream?
 And they said, I don't know.
 They went back and they asked them, they came back to me and they said he wants a motorcycle. This is a 36 year old man.
 And I'm thinking great, chrome down Harley, and they said no, use $2,500 dirt bike. So think about it. I mean, you and I are kind of in the dream business and we talked to people who were, there's some people who just lost that.
 And so that's why for all of our awesome Aussies that are listening.
 My daughter's life was changed. I wanted the trip.
 The Aussie, the Aussie came up through it every break and after she was 17, a little shy, a little insecure.
 They said, do you like travel with your dad? What do you think, Australia? Where are you going to school? Do you think you might go into speaking someday?
 In other words, they treated her like an adult. They thought she could do more than she thought she could.
 She transformed from a little bit shy back of the room to an outgoing, confident young woman on that trip because these awesome Aussies just basically wrapped their arms around her figuratively and said, man, you belong.
 And so we've got to remember that some people have lost the dream. They've lost the capacity.
 And so they got to borrow something from us, right? We've got a transferred to them. We've got to give them some encouragement.
 And if you're listening and you've kind of lost your dream, just ask yourself, why are you here in the first place?
 Is it to take up space or is it to make a difference?
 And I believe it's to make a difference.
 And so how do you go about creating the environment that allows other people to become all like God created them to become?
 And if you have a passion or desire in your heart, who put it there in the first place?
 And when they get a lot of times we find out our creator put it there, that's the clue.
 Yeah, I love that story about your daughter because it is, and it's not like you have not taught her to have dreams.
 It's not like she just didn't have that confidence that watching the Ziglar legacy.
 I mean, there's so big shoes to fill there, right? So like you get that, it's like, wow, that's a lot.
 And then having somebody look at her and go, well, you can do this too.
 Yeah, you know, it reminds me of that old story. I don't know who came up with it, but it's, I think it's fact that if you take like and what is it the elephant and you tie it to a stake that it can't pull out of the ground, then as it grows, it will not realize that as it's bigger.
 All that has to do is just move hard and it will pull it out.
 It will always stay stuck to that stake because it doesn't have that dream.
 And so just that concept of what we do that in our lives and how much that whole despack when really if we just get some of that junk out of our lives and start focusing on more positive stuff, then we can start moving in a stronger direction.
 One of those things that you use, which we have loved, I've used for decades is the will of life just so powerful.
 We talked about that on the last interview we did a while back. We used that in our stuff all the time. The bad pun. There's no need to reinvent that wheel. That's a great wheel.
 It's just so covers every aspect of your life. How do you use that in this process for choosing to win?
 So what we do is there are seven choices that you can make in the choose to win process. The seven choices reflect the seven spokes of the wheel, the mental, the spiritual, the physical, the family, the financial, the personal, the career.
 We go in to each one of those separate chapters and we give you specific ideas and concepts that you can apply to your life that will make you more effective, more productive, right then when you do it.
 So for example, in the personal spoke of the wheel, I have in there 20 habits that will give you energy and fuel. In the career spoke of the wheel, I have 50 habits and we actually have a habit assessment in there.
 The go around attitude, effort and skill. We have this simple performance formula that it performance is simply attitude times effort times skill. And so in my work life, if I want to have the right attitude, what habits can I, you know, we've got 11 habits that you can create to create the right attitude. It's easy for me to say Chris have a great attitude.
 So another thing to say, hey, if this is your dream in your goal, do you think an attitude, the right attitude will help you get their faster. Obviously the answer is yes.
 If you want the right attitude, do this assessment and pick one or two habits around attitude that are going to get you their faster. Same with effort, same with skill. Same thing, you know, when we talk about alignment, it's it's great for me to say, oh, you should do this.
 It's more powerful for you to dream something you want to do. Walk eyes on that, make sure it's congruent with your life, which we teach you how to do on the book. And then say, if that's where I want to be, what of the simple habits I can apply to my life that will get me there faster.
 So amazing that when you look at it in seven different areas, I think so many people think if I'm going to be happy my life must change and they don't realize that you can do that you've got to have a broken out in seven different areas.
 So you don't actually have to change everything right this second and make it one huge chunk that you've got to accomplish. I think that's daunting to people to think, well, if I'm going to be happy at all, then I have to be happy in all these areas of my life.
 You guys have set it up where it's like, go fix this. Here's here's some habits just for you mentally. If you can get the mental habits down and can start making yourself much happier in life here, guess what happens to your career.
 Whenever we go through the will of life, one of the things we do is we show people where is your relationship with God compared to all these other places. Well, it's always lower than any other place because where you put your focus, right?
 And it's amazing if you just kick that up how much it changes everything else. If you follow those habits in a specific area, it's natural it's like the rising tide right it's going to raise all ships.
 One of our guys, he's one of our certified trainers, his name is Matt McKinley, and he's got about 30 employees. So he took the wheel of life and it's a self assessment. It takes 10 minutes to do. I'm sure yours is kind of the same.
 And so it gives you a picture of where you are right now. So what he did is he handed it out to his team and he said, fill this out. Don't put your name on it and turn it in.
 So then he could did a composite score. And so every week when he has his company meeting, he has the company wheel right there on the board. Wow. And he says this, my job is the leader is to help you get balance in that wheel.
 Because when our company's wheel is balanced, we don't have to worry about how we're going to do as a business. So he put that employee. I went out to visiting. He's about hour and a half from Dallas.
 So I go in and we're showing me around and we're in his office. I said, Matt, man, you've done fantastic. And he looks at me and he takes this finger and he points it at his chest at his heart and he says, Tom, when I got this right, he then took his finger and he pointed it out to his business, right, all the people out on the floor. He said, then I got that right.
 Oh, I love it. So the assessment is obviously a part of the book. Yeah. So that's something that especially you leaders, I want to make sure, but I want everybody to get that and just take that just to see where you are.
 My gosh, it will show you the areas you need to focus, but I love what you just shared there about how he used that. No names. Let's just take a composite of where the business is, where the team is.
 And then, you know, the thing that we always say here at your job is a leader to make your team successful, not the other way around.
 So, wow, how do I get their scores up in every one of those areas? I love it. So what is one final piece of advice that you want to leave with our listeners?
 I'll leave you with this. To me, the number one lesson I learned from my dad was the choice of input.
 What are we going to read? Listen to who are we going to associate with? Who are we going to do life with?
 When we start to take charge of our input and as Dad used to say, make sure it's the good to clean the pure, the powerful and the positive right?
 I mean, that's when everything starts to change, but I want to add something else to it because I've kind of dug deep into this. You know, Dad and I do this now. I do three hours every day too. Dad spent three hours every day reading, researching, quiet time.
 But here was the difference maker is he would learn new information for the sole purpose of internalizing it, simplifying it so that he could then go and share it with somebody else that they might take it into a change their life.
 So his motive was to change their life. And there's a proverb that basically says, "You can't water a garden without you yourself being watered."
 And so if you're looking for a place to start, what if five minutes a day, you read, you listen to something new with the purpose of internalizing it, simplifying it, and then share it with somebody that day to benefit them.
 That'll change your life. Yeah, the great thing is you guys have been experts at this for decades.
 And that's what I love. That's what I love about you guys. I love that.
 God has put us together and connected us. I love the stuff that you guys put out. So everybody listening, I want you to focus on that.
 This is not some brand new idea that somebody's trying to convince you of this is stuff that has been time tested. So many of us have followed for a long time.
 And it's just powerful on life changing. So if you could go back in time, one thing I ask everybody is, if you go back in time to a young Tom, what would you tell them?
 Start now. Start now. Don't wait.
 I tell you what, you know, if I could go back to a young Tom, it would be implementing the control over my input and taking charge of the first part of my day.
 Amen.
 Because everything builds off of that. I mean, it's just it's the ultimate multiplier of everything good when you do those two things.
 So I'm probably going to I know I'm going to scare this up because it's been a long time since I've heard your dad say this, but he used to say there's always three things I'm reading.
 Is that correct the Bible?
 There's two things I read every day. The Bible and the newspaper.
 Oh, yeah, to see. Okay.
 That way I know what most sounds are up to.
 That's right. That's right.
 That's right.
 Okay. It's fed so long.
 I love it.
 Well, brother, thank you so much. How can people get the book and get more of you?
 Here's the cool thing. The book is really easy. You go to choose to win book.com, choose to win book.com, and you can order for many different sources right there. It'll take you everywhere.
 But it also has a lot of bonuses that come along with it. So if you go to you can go to straight to Amazon if you want, but you won't know about the cool bonuses.
 So go get the bonuses. You'll like that. I'll be doing a webinar on it and all kinds of stuff. There's an infographic that explains the whole thing in one page.
 That's the easiest way.
 And our website at ziggler.com.
 That's where you can find out more about me.
 But I would go to choose to win book.com and just get it there.
 All right. Well, we're going to also put that in the show notes.
 Brother, thank you again for doing this.
 Thank you for continuing the book.
 I'm going to continue to have an impact on my life. Thank you for the legacy that you have been creating.
 It's just powerful and I love it. And so thank you for doing this for everybody. I appreciate it.
 Thank you so much, Chris.
 All right. Well, folks, we barely scratched the surface on this book.
 It is full of inspiration and practical actions. So this will change your life.
 Go get a book. Go get a copy. Guys, for those of you that are running teams,
 get it for everybody on your team. Trust me.
 This will impact every single person on your team.
 So make sure that you go get that copy today.
 We hope that you've enjoyed this as always.
 Take this information, change your leadership, change your business,
 change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]