 What creates a 30% decrease in your team's productivity, or find you your next $1.7 million in revenue?
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life, and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCredo Show. We have a great show today with an awesome guest, and to make
 it super special, I get to talk about a hysterical movie. One of the funniest ones made, which is
 office space. Now, you've probably seen this movie if you do, then you know about corporate drone
 Peter Gibbons, who hates his sole killing job at a software company. He refuses to work over time,
 he plays games at his desk, and unintentionally charms two consultants into putting him into
 the management fast track. Later on, Peter's friends learn that they're about to be downsized,
 so they hatch a revenge plot against the company inspired by Superman 3, because of course,
 that absolutely makes sense. Now, here's the thing that is obvious throughout the entire movie.
 Not just that it is hilarious, but that the company has just an awful culture. It is terrible.
 No one likes to be there. You see no productivity. The company has to downsize, and revolution takes place.
 For most of you, it has a got in that bad. At least I'm hoping that that's not what your business
 looks like, but we don't just want to not have a bad culture. We want to have a great
 phenomenal culture, culture of champions. And that's what we're talking about today. So, to talk
 about culture, I brought on Jol Forton, who is our director of leadership development, and who is also
 in charge of our next level mastermind program, to add perspective to this conversation on culture.
 Now, we both coach every single week. Jol spends the majority of his week with clients getting
 perspective, diagnosing issues, and giving solutions that make massive impact in their leadership
 and business. So, folks, he is the real deal. So, welcome to the show, Jol Forton. I have never
 been described as the real deal. But you are the real deal. Also, I have one other thing to say,
 I need my stapler back. I did want my tape. I just want it back. Can you please call it up?
 I mean, I have a stapler here. They just took it. Nobody is. That is a lie for the movie.
 I just can never get out of my head. That and it seems that you've been missing work lately.
 I don't know if I would say that I've been missing work. Good stuff. Good to have you on the show,
 brother. Thank you. So glad to be back on. Now, today we're talking about culture today, which is
 something that's massive in our business. We're huge about having phenomenal culture here.
 And something that we teach about and shows up on your calls as well a lot. Yeah, only like eight
 days out of the week. Yes, seriously. It's all the time. Now, for me, culture comes down to two things,
 which is actions and attitudes. And there's a reason that MIT pours tons of money into studying
 human behavior and it's effect on actions and attitudes in the workplace. It's because culture matters.
 Now, everybody started the quote, culture each strategy for breakfast and culture wakes up hungry and
 ready to go to work, all that fun stuff. So many leaders think that they have revenue problems.
 Team member problems, productivity problems, when really many of them have culture issues.
 Yeah, totally. So we're going to be talking all about this and how to fix this and all that
 kind of fun stuff coming up right after this. What is standing in the way of your business goals?
 Maybe you sprint through your days, exhausted balancing the workload of 10 people. Maybe you're always
 putting out fires rather than having time to strategize. Maybe your revenue expectations seem out of reach.
 Get the tools to solve these frustrations and lead your team to success in 2019 at the next
 level leadership live event. In three days, you can get the tools to accomplish your growth goals,
 create a culture of champions, control your time and change the way you do business. Here's the
 transformation our clients have seen 8,169% net profit increase in one year. Gained 30 hours a week
 back. 46% gross profit increase in one year. 25% team productivity increase in 8 months. So to have
 those types of transformations come to the next level leadership live event. Go to crissacrote.com/events
 and get your tail to this event to get the results you want in your leadership and business. Go to
 crissacrote.com/events. We are back and we're talking about culture issues and ways to have phenomenal
 cultures. It's not usually a revenue problem or team problem or productivity problem, which those are
 huge issues. But revenue is usually almost always not the issue. We help so many people that come through
 strap, plan to discover revenue is not your big problem. We've got these other things. If we fix these,
 then we're going to fix your business. So it's usually at its core, it's usually a culture problem.
 It's why I say healthy culture covers a multitude of sins. When you fix your culture, it's amazing.
 How many other problems you thought you had worked themselves out and go away? Gosh, it just reminds
 me of a story of one of our clients, Chris Camp, that when he brought the leadership team through
 and started working with us closely, they're hard chargers, they're driven guys, they want to grow,
 they want to make money, they're amazing people. And what they really at the heart of it
 discovered, we have really our culture issues are holding this back from that revenue issue, that growth
 issue because we're going to muscle it out, but the leaders are way out ahead, perhaps the team
 are out ahead of the team and the culture making decisions that aren't addressing one of the main
 things that's holding them back from getting the revenue, which is our team isn't there. They're not
 equipped. They're not set up to actually do it. We don't have the right communication accountability
 so on and so forth so we can't go get the money. Right. Now they didn't zero in on the bottom line,
 they didn't throw money at marketing. Yep. They lasered in on specifically culture. There was a big
 piece which really, really took their performance from I think it was up to 1.7 billion in growth.
 Something like that. It's just, yeah, it was staggering. Again, like I said, it wasn't the focusing
 on the marketing. Focus on the culture. 1.7 billion. That was powerful. So if you're a leader and you're
 overloaded and you're finding that you can't spend time. This is what we hear. How much time does it take?
 All that's going to take. Yeah, it is going to take time, but it's absolutely worth it. If you feel
 like you can't spend time with your team members, then I can promise you this. The wrong culture is
 already being created. It's happening right now. Culture is both what you do and don't, don't, don't,
 what you allow. Exactly. And you use the word created. It's more like it's sneaking in the back door
 on you because you're not creating it. You're not leading what you want. So it's just like you're
 going in and saying, I want this bad culture. Exactly. It's not saying it's a consequence of not
 actually leading to finding and leading out what excellent culture. We're just having a
 conversation this morning. It's not about striving for the minimal standard of what we can do,
 which is let's avoid a bad culture. No, let's lead to a great culture. A deliberate culture.
 So there is this study speaking of MIT talking about them earlier. So there's this study.
 And let's we're going to talk about this guy, Nick. Okay. So there was this study done at MIT
 of 20-person group. One downer was secretly placed into the group. That's Nick. Okay, so hold on
 to do. Good on Nick. He's negative. He's brought problems with him. He's not solutions. My,
 did there's no buy-in. He's a total pessimist. And we've dropped him now into this group.
 So check this out. And the study, the goal was to see how Nick's negativity would impact the
 team performance. How much could one person affect, right? How much could one bad seed affect the
 whole culture at the end of the study, no kidding. They found that adding the one negative team
 member to this group of 20, it decreased performance by 30%. One single person. Negative seed.
 That is ridiculous. Okay. So I mean, you nailed it earlier when you said culture isn't just created
 by what you do by what you allow. Yeah, if I folks, I hope you're getting this. You know, this is
 why culture is so important. We always think, if I just get that revenue pill, where's the magic
 pill? And there are tons of people out there selling their magic pills. There's tons of programs for your
 magic pill. All of this up. If you want to go spend your money there, that's completely up to you.
 Whatever. Yeah, because a pill will cost you $25. It's exactly where true growth transformation
 tends to cost a touch more, right? But it's a matter of what you're going to invest to get it.
 Exactly. If I allow Nick to continue those negative behaviors as a leader, I'm allowing him
 Nick is the one who's now creating my bad culture. And it's my fault. Yeah. Here's this negative
 person who, and we've all been there. I think every single person listening to the show has been in
 that place where they've worked in a culture that there's a negative person and they hate being around
 that person, they hate when they start gossiping, they hate when they start doing crap. And it affects them.
 And if they come around, it's this, oh great. Here's the negative person. We've all absolutely been
 there. So with what you share Joel and that study, that means that 5%, 5% of the workforce can decrease
 your productivity by 30%. Now, this is MIT study on just that. I can tell you this. I've been
 leading four decades. I've been leading leaders on entrepreneurs, business owners, four decades.
 And I always use a much higher stat because I see it. I've been watching this happen for decades,
 over and over and over. And over and over, bad cultures can cut productivity by 50%. They use this
 one study and I think it's great. And it's fantastic. It's an Aladdin. I'm sure it's spot on.
 But I'm talking about practitioner here. I'm talking about in the real world working with businesses.
 I watch it over and over again. The productivity is jacked by 50%. I can't tell you how many
 teams and you've seen it. You know, we'll have companies come through like strap-in.
 And we can see the amount of money outlay for the size of a team that is not accomplishing that much.
 And what we helped them to see is you're spending all this because you're only getting
 have the productivity from the people that are there. There's many times I've worked with companies
 to say, hey, if you cut the salary on this number of people, would you still be able to get the
 things done? And the interesting way of looking at that is is that the actual sales is not the
 issue. The issue is that they're not getting enough productivity to cover the sales. Tons of leaders.
 We hear this all the time. Totally totally. You know, I can do this. I don't know why my team can't do this.
 So you think about this concept is that we we summarize culture very simply.
 Actions, attitudes, leaders think about this. How many actions happen in your business daily?
 1000s. How what attitudes are there across your team? Are they all over the place? Are they uniform?
 What is the constant or ever-changing attitude? If you really just hover over what actions and
 attitudes mean and start looking around your team, my gosh, do these actions I'm seeing align with
 some semblance of a culture that I want? Are these attitudes aligning with some semblance of the
 culture that I want? So let me paint this picture. When you start thinking about, I'm going to define my
 mission. So my team has clarity on our purpose and who we are and why we exist. And then I'm going to
 define a vision of a destination of where we're going and I'm going to lead that out. Then I'm going to set
 a business strategy and all these goals for how to get there. And then I'm going to put KRAs in place,
 look at the level right there of looking at what are the actions that are happening or detracting
 from even trying to accomplish those things? And you can start to see, man, I can start to see even more
 why culture is so important for us achieving our goals. Yeah, we have clients in every single week.
 I mean, there's rarely a week in the year that we don't have some sort of an event that has clients
 coming into the building. And all the time we hear the same thing, man, you're team.
 My gosh, it's amazing how they greeted me. They've taken care of me this whole process. I've been
 here for days and they're always taking care of me. When people are in here for a week long event,
 something like that, they're like, I want the culture that you have. There's a reason that
 ours operates as well as it does. We are incredibly intentional about that. I was sitting there.
 It's so funny this morning. Right before we start our staff meetings, we got all of our team
 ready for this staff meeting. And it is just phenomenal conversation, phenomenal interaction,
 team, love and on each other. There's not people on phones, on computers, trying to get things done.
 It's people enjoying each other's company because we have such a great culture that people actually
 like working together with each other. Exactly. It's because we lead it because we talk about things.
 It's not just because we hired phenomenal people, which we did. It's because they're well-led.
 They're actually, they're trained up. So leaders, I hope you're hearing and doing some mental
 math here. So let's talk about how to keep some of these bad things like the Nick from happening,
 even in your culture and how to have a great culture. And I will tell you, it starts with you.
 It starts with the person you see in the mirror every day. So I was talking to a friend over the
 weekend who went back and listened to the three-part podcast series you and Heather did a long time ago,
 seven enemies of leadership. One of those that's so prominent that sticks out is things like
 victim mentality. Man, if you struggle with that, if you're a victim to your team or you've got, oh my gosh,
 I can't believe my team is doing these things. This may be hard to hear, but these are the things to see
 and say, gosh, I don't want to be that way anymore. I've got to take personal responsibility and ownership
 and do the people part. Yes, the people part can be harder, but it's where I've got to go and I've got to
 lead myself in that direction to get stronger and healthier as an individual. So I can lead myself
 more effectively. So I can lead my team more effectively and it means it starts with you the leader.
 So we want to share a little bit about next-level life with you. Next-level life is our two-day
 personal discovery experience. It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you through a
 process to help you discover your root system, to get unstuck in life and to discover what's holding
 you back from freedom and peace. Imagine this. What if you could wake up every morning with a
 clear purpose? What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict? Where would you be
 in a few months, a year, five years, if you had clarity, purpose, and peace? Probably a big difference
 for more you stand today. Now I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking
 myself is there more. There is and there is a better way and it starts with next-level life.
 You can go to Chrissacrita.com/discover to take the next step. Now if you're struggling with this
 contentment, regrets or not feeling good enough which most of you are, if you're filled with anxiety
 or your relationships are lacking, don't keep going through the same motions every single day. Learn how to
 move past the things robbing you of peace. Go to Chrissacrita.com/discover and take the next step.
 So, Chrissacrita, we say it all the time. A great culture must be taught and taught. As we've always
 taught, you have to one, you have to define it. You're what the culture looks like. Then you have to force
 what that looks like. This isn't a beauty control. I'm going to have to force in and be like,
 guys, this is what we want. This is what we're doing. This is really, do we accept this? That's
 what forcing sort of just going to go like. We don't just go like. We've got to train him. But we have to
 force what we want. We have to teach it. We have to recognize what's going well and praise it.
 So, the team knows. Yes, that's what we're after. These kinds of decisions are what we're after.
 We have to attack the stuff that's not going right or going well. And we have to repeat all of it.
 All these steps we have to repeat it. Some leaders who are super-tast saturated right now, Chris,
 are probably thinking, "Jill, I'm already tired. I'm already worn out." This is why we want to get out of
 the leadership crazy cycle so that you have more bandwidth to do this right here. These six steps are
 critical, but they all work together to getting that great culture. Yeah, and the thing is,
 is that when you do it, again, we talked about Chris Camp and his team. It's so fat tested. There
 is a story in this morning's staff, meaning about Mike, who's on his team, who's now a second layer of
 leadership, who's now in the mastermind program. And he's going through one of the lessons that Chris
 went through years ago and he's going, "Oh my gosh, we literally live this out. This is stuff that we
 live in our business. It's so great to see that this is where it came from. We're so successful at this.
 And he load seeing a ha. Chris has implemented this and knocked it out of the park. And now we get to see
 where that came from. That's what happens when you do this stuff. Absolutely. And I'm really excited
 that I'm going to be teaching creating a culture of champions, the lesson at the next level of leadership
 live event. Absolutely. And I'm super excited about you teaching this lesson at the next
 of a leadership live event, the lesson creating a culture of champions. That's what you're going to learn folks.
 But I'm so excited about getting into this because of how important culture is and laying out this
 clear process for people. Like this is the path to getting the culture that you want. Where you're
 going to give breakout time, discussion, be able to work on what do I want my culture to be so that
 when you get back to work on Monday, you can start implementing and seeing these types of results.
 I mean stuff that does impact your growth. Absolutely. The stuff that does pull together the team so that
 even the team loves doing what they do even more and they're more body in to the culture or the
 direction we're going and leading out that culture that gives people that attitude that 100%
 I'm positive energetic positive attitude that we all want in our business. Absolutely. Folks listen,
 you need what we're going to be covering at this event. Get your butt to the event. But here's
 what I want to give our listeners right now. I want to give you guys some action steps that you can do
 before we close out this podcast. So weekly action items. The first thing, as Joel mentioned it,
 the first thing you must do. If you want a phenomenal culture and again we're going to be teaching
 very in-depth on this but this is something you can do right now. Define what you want. Define it.
 It's the very first step in creating a culture of champions. Now as I said, we don't have time
 to fully teach this but you can still get results right now. By defining the actions and attitudes that
 you want to make up your culture. Now it's also good to go ahead and define what actually is there
 right now so that you can compare. You're actually going to be surprised at the difference. You're going
 to see that there are actions and attitudes that do not align with the culture that you want.
 So start right now. If you don't know which actions and attitudes that you want, how in the world
 are you going to hold people accountable to them. So one example is our clients are the ones who put
 food on the table. Take care of them. That is one of our core values. You have to recognize. So I tell
 our team all the time. Hey listen, our clients pay me. I pay you guys. So understand this. Our clients
 put food on our table. So if we don't have them, it doesn't matter. This business does not exist. So take care
 of the people that put the food on the table. That is an important action and attitude that I want
 people to have. So when people walk in the door every single time clients walk in our door,
 they're molded by our people. I mean, it's just our folks are out there just love it out of it.
 So funny because they stand there. Some of the new people have never been here before or maybe haven't
 been listed as long as they stand there. They're like, oh, what's going on? All these people are so nice.
 And wow. And then they come in. We bring them in. We serve them our famous coffee that we do here.
 Side note. Delanos had the number one barista in the nation. Give it to you on that. We're probably
 going to. That's awesome. We might even have her on the show. That would be amazing. Yeah. So David
 and I were talking about, hey, we need to just have you guys on the show. Anyways, there's a crazy
 side track. But we serve fantastic Delanos coffee to our clients. We take care of the people coming in the door.
 We lead this at every event. It's a something that we teach and communicate every single day in our
 business. It's to the point that if a team member, any of our team members discovers that a client has
 maybe lost a loved one or something like that. They already know send flowers. We've got one of our
 clients husbands that's been sick recently and we're sending them like brownies or something. Something that's
 just a, hey, man, we know life sucks right now in this moment that you're struggling through the stuff.
 But here's something just to cheer you up. Our team members know to do that. It's not even a thought.
 They know to take care of the clients. All of that comes around the very actions and attitudes that I want.
 This is the culture that I have defined. And that is a big piece for me. Understand, we serve our
 clients. We put other people first. And when you put other people first, then you do the other things that are
 the most important. Thanks to us, which is worshiping God and serving God. So these are the actions and
 attitudes that I have defined. You need to sit down and do this. So spend some time this week,
 writing out some values that you would say this is what we want our company to be known for. Now,
 it may be you as the business owner. If you are the business owner, if it's your leader and you're
 leading just a team or you're leading many leaders, whoever you are, write down the culture you want for
 your team or for your business, wherever you are in the business. So Chris, there's something that's just
 such a powerful takeaway in what you're sharing there is that guys, this is your job as a leader.
 This isn't let's go to the team and we're going to you tell us what this is what leadership looks like.
 Is defining and leading out, this is your job as a leader to do and at some of the greatest,
 most impactful life-changing work that you will ever do. So guys, if you're if you're still thinking about
 coming to this event, you and a hundred other leaders and our team, you can still get your tickets right now.
 So but only for a short time. So this event is May 1 through 3 here in Franklin, Tennessee.
 I'm tickets are going, the doors are going to close April 24th at midnight. So you still have a little bit
 of time, but time is a ticking. And so as we say, we'll be talking to people next several life,
 seriously, that a lot of life passes us by and opportunities pass us by because we don't plan. We don't look
 to the future and say, I need to plan this out. I need to make a change. Let's go ahead and commit to that
 and start working backwards to get things in line, talk to spouses, clear my schedule,
 have time to delegate tasks to free yourself up to get to this event. So the way to do that is go to
 ChrisLicardo.com/events and get all the info you need, more even more detail if you need it and to
 get your tickets before they're gone. Again, that's ChrisLicardo.com/events. Well, there you have it folks.
 Thank you for joining us on this episode. Hopefully you have gotten a piece that you can go and
 change in your business right now. Now, if you find that this podcast is helpful and have
 enjoyed being a part of our community, it would mean a ton to us if you would help us get the word out
 so we can encourage more leaders. So go to iTunes or the podcast app and give us a review
 and share the content that has been meaningful to you. We really appreciate that. That means a lot to
 us because that helps us do the very thing that we want to do which is change more line. So as always,
 take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life and join us
 on the next episode.