 I think everyone would benefit from next level life.
 It is like I said, a one of a kind experience that is like changing.
 Not can be, but it is like changing.
 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardos Show, where we discuss leadership and life.
 And discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 Before we dive into today's content, we have a great question to answer that came from Facebook.
 It's from Ezra and Ezra asks, Chris, how much time should I be taking off annually to recharge
 to myself?
 And at what intervals should I do this?
 And essence, every quarter, semi-annually, that is a fantastic question Ezra.
 We live so much in a world that's rejuvenating yourself, recharging yourself is not the
 important thing, the important thing.
 And there are so many people screaming their lungs out from different product lines and
 supposed thought leaders that are saying, your worth is in your productivity.
 Go produce, go hustle, hustle, hustle, hustle.
 You know, it's this concept of hustle.
 It has been so taking out of, taking out of context or it has been so blown up as the important
 thing is the hustle.
 What are you here from the beginning of this episode and every podcast that we do?
 Your business is what you do, it's not who you are.
 Now in my business, people bust their butts, but they're not bustling their butts 20 hours a day.
 They're not bustling their butts affecting their kids in a negative way.
 They come in, they bust their butts here to help you guys have change in your life and then they live
 their life.
 Right?
 So this concept that we are hearing all the time that you need to utilize every second of your
 day to try and do this hustle or a side hustle or or what's happening is it's pulling you away
 from actually being in a place where you have the charge to do what you need to do.
 Now don't get me wrong.
 If the ox is in the ditch, get the ox out of the ditch.
 If there's times that things are going wrong here and we've got to fix something people are
 staying late, we're getting things done.
 Every time we do our events quarterly, people are here working late, doing things to get that done.
 Whenever we do a next-level life, we're here taking care of our clients on next-level life.
 We put an extra time on that as well.
 So there's plenty of days throughout the year that we put an extra time.
 The point that I'm making is that we have made the productivity the most important
 worth in our life. There's two places that people usually get their worth from.
 Productivity or people pleasing.
 And when it comes to this question of needing to be able to recharge, you have to put something in
 place that allows you to recharge so that you can do the work that God's calling you to do.
 If you are focused on productivity being your greatest worth, then I can promise you,
 you're not thinking about recharging. You're probably at a place where you're overwhelmed,
 you're probably worn out, you're exhausted, and you're looking for I just need to do something.
 I'm going to burn out if I keep doing this. So let me answer the question.
 The recharge all depends on where you are in life, what you're experiencing, what you're doing.
 I highly suggest getting away at least a quarter, even if it's a long weekend.
 It doesn't have to mean that you're taking complete days off from work.
 You could take a phenomenal staycation weekend and not do anything.
 The Jews have a great way of looking at this. It's called Sabbath on a weekly basis.
 They take a day away from the world. They don't work. They don't do anything. They don't go.
 They don't invite any of that junk in so they're able to recharge on a weekly basis.
 A lot of people don't follow that process. So instead they're running on the weekend.
 They're having to get things done over the weekend. They're having to go do their shopping.
 They're having to get work done. We have so many people that work on the weekend when they should
 be spending time with family. So if you're not spending a specific set time every week to recharge,
 then my suggestion is you need to be taking a hard look at at least quarterly taking some time off.
 I know for me back in the days when I traveled all the time, I had to have a four-day weekend once a
 quarter. Many of those times I would just go back home to Tahoe and just breathe. Just get out,
 walk in the woods, sit around, read a fantastic book, go have great food, go to the lake,
 and just spend some time not plugging into the rest of the world at all. And that would just give
 me a lot of life and then when I came back, I was ready to go again. Sometimes I miss that quarter and I felt it.
 Nowadays I find other ways to be rechargeed. I recharge weekly as well. I try to take that time and not plug
 into the world. So that's the way I look at it. Definitely you need to be doing something annually.
 Very long answer. I hope that I hope this answers the question Ezra and I hope this helps you
 guys today. Today we're going to be talking about how to invest in yourself, how to become the strongest,
 the healthiest version of you and how to break through what's holding you back in life. And to talk
 about the topic we've brought on Becky Taylor. Now Becky is a longtime educator entrepreneur in a
 business leader for 30 years. She has been a multi-center franchise operating as many as eight centers
 out of time. During the past couple of years, she has sold all of her centers and is figuring out what the next
 chapter in life looks like. Now she is coaching, mentoring and working with both her son and daughter
 and law as they continue to grow and be very successful in the businesses. Most importantly, she is the
 proud grandmother of five year old twins that are the joy of her life. So folks, do me a favor,
 welcome to the show, Becky Taylor. Becky, welcome. Thank you, Chris. Boy, those were some nice things you said
 that somebody's my life up exactly. And I'm just excited to be here to share some of my experiences
 and hope that I can touch some lives out there. Well, we appreciate it. It's great to have you on the show.
 And it was fantastic having you and your husband in here last month. So thank you for doing this.
 Tell folks who don't know much about you. Tell them a little bit more about your life, your family,
 your career, anything that I love to have. Well, I think you told most of it. You know, I think it's important
 as far as my background. I grew up in a home with six children and a mother raising us. And so we learned
 that we had to work hard from a young age. And I took that into my life. And I think I may have taken it to
 a next level that I shouldn't have gone to, which is to do all of my work and everyone else's.
 And I have learned at a late time of my life that probably I should have not tried to control so much
 and let other people work hard. Oh, gosh, if we only knew that if we knew that early on and we were actually
 really got that, it would be so powerful. So a few years ago, before you came into the next level,
 if you were to ask yourself, if my life were at a hundred percent, if I could wave a magic wand
 and see the healthiest best version of my life, what would that look like? What would your answer have been?
 Well, I think there are some components of where I was several years ago that I would keep.
 You know, I would, I felt healthy when I had busy centers, serving lots of families, working with schools,
 with teachers, with the community. And impacting as many lives as I could. But if I could
 wave the wand, I would probably let go of some of the need to control so that I could spend more time
 managing my business rather than working in my business. Basically, I would do everything that my
 directors did on a daily basis it seems, as well as all of my franchise owner duties. So I know that
 I would have done that differently. I always felt a good relationship with God. But I would
 take more time to focus on that relationship no matter how busy things were because there are many times
 that I believe that I needed him a lot more, but I would just handle things on my own. And I would have
 been much happier, had I accepted that and taken the time. And also, I'd probably be better at solving
 conflict. I definitely would be less judgmental. I would not make as many assumptions as I
 did in those times. And I would look elsewhere from my approval, not from just helping people and
 being a top performer. But I would look at my worth in a different way.
 Right. One of the big things that we help so many people to understand coming through next
 level life is that, you know, where all of those things came from, like the control, you know,
 the need to control situations or the need to do everything or feel the responsibility that you've got to
 do your work and everybody else's work and really kind of understanding where that came from.
 So many folks can see what we call the what. You know, that this is a struggle. This is an area
 I'm struggling, but they don't understand the why and understanding that why is so powerful.
 And as we can see, as you look back on that, you can see so many things that you would have
 done differently. What would you say were your biggest frustrations? I mean, obviously, you just mentioned
 some of those, but what were you dealing with day-to-day? I think my biggest frustrations
 probably is that I was constantly overwhelmed. I was overwhelmed by trying to take care of everyone
 at work, at home, you know, anywhere I went. I just felt like it was my job to take care of everything.
 Really, I just had no time to relax. I think I was hearing a lot of stress for many, many years.
 And then, you know, I was oftentimes I would be disappointed in others for their negative behaviors
 and that was frustrating to me. And you know, I was only to experience a sense of peace and well-being,
 but it just seemed like I never took the time to focus on how to get there for myself.
 How did that impact you personally? Because obviously, we can see that coming out in the day-to-day,
 we can see that in the, you know, when you have expectations of other people and they're not meeting
 those that it's a frustration from a business sense. What was that like for you personally?
 Personally, I was exhausted. You know, I was up every day and out the door at seven in the office
 on the road, running here, running there, getting home at 6/30 or 7, doing what I needed to around the house,
 then working again to 11-to-off-else leave and then repeating it again. And, you know, hopefully,
 Fridays and I would try to wander around a little bit, but, you know, when you own your own business,
 it's hard to ever let go. And I just felt like I was neglecting myself and, you know,
 and I'm surprised that I continued as long as I did. You know, with everything that was going on,
 it was just very frustrating, very overwhelming. And I feel like my help, you know,
 suffered because of that. Yeah, that is one thing. It's so funny with all the things that we teach
 when we teach on leadership, we teach on life, all of this stuff. One of the things that we definitely
 inject into our teaching is the health side of it. Because for some reason, we have had this idea
 that we can run like that. There's all these people out there screaming, you know, go hustle, hustle,
 hustle, hustle, and you just got to keep working. You know, you got to work 27 hours a day and you
 got to do all this stuff. And there is this massive disconnect from how that actually affects you as a
 as a human being and how it affects your body and how much stress that pushes on your
 your body as well and causes you to feel overwhelmed and exhausted and all that kind of stuff.
 So you were seeing all that, you're experiencing all that. How did you find out about next level of life?
 Well, I actually found about it about it through my daughter and law who has been participating in a
 lot of the leadership training and probably for over a year now. And you know, and I'll be honest at
 the beginning, I wasn't sure what she was involved in and a little bit, you know, skeptical,
 wondering what's going on there? So I was actually very excited. I was supportive of her all the
 long. I didn't dare question it and front of her, but in my mind, I was, this is how was it?
 Statement when she told me that she would like for me to go. And I think she would like for lots of
 family members to go, but she knew that I would be probably more receptive. And I absolutely loved it.
 It helped open the eyes to what she was involved in and how it was helping her in her business life,
 as well as her personal life. I had seen change just in her over the past several months that were
 just amazing in all capacities, personally in in her business. So I wanted to see what this magic was coming
 from. Shout out to Cindy because she is an absolute rock star.
 The phenomenal gal, we got a chance to meet your son, got to hang out with him for a little bit. So we
 hope that we get to see more of him as well. So just a great couple doing great stuff. I've never seen
 a leader that's had everything that they wanted. Out of thousands of leaders that I've coached,
 most are probably a lot like you. You wish you saw greater productivity unless drama from your team
 that you didn't spend your energy putting out fires, that you had more time to invest in your
 family and the things that you enjoy and you felt more equipped to lead your team to success. The only
 thing that's holding leaders back from the results they desire is having the right tools and you can
 get those tools at the next level leadership live event. So if you're young, old, new, experienced,
 struggling or really successful, this event is for anyone who is ready to learn from 25 years of
 best practices that get proven results. It's not about short term fixes. In three days, I'm going to teach
 you how to have sustained revenue growth to generate greater productivity from your team and get a
 immediate momentum toward the results that you want. It's going to be detailed, practical and loaded
 with how to's. From the lessons we're teaching, our clients have seen an average of 46% increase
 in growth profit in one year's time. That's one year's time. These clients are a normal,
 everyday businesses and your business can have the same level of success. So if you're ready to see
 those results, go to crissacrido.com/events and get your tell to this event and invest in your leadership
 and your business that's crissacrido.com/events. I can't wait to see you there.
 As you came through or before you came, there was anything that you were afraid of coming into next level of life.
 I think the biggest thing I was afraid of is not knowing what I was going into.
 I think all of us have somewhat of a fear of the unknown. I don't know. I had no clue what it was
 going to mean. I was very open when I came in. I thought I'm just going to have to take it as it comes
 in May hurt and maybe good and it was all of those things. But it was just life changing. There's no other
 there's no other way to describe it. When I tried to tell friends about it because I came back
 all excited. Many of my friends that I was describing ahead of time, what I was going to were just
 like I was going to send me. It was like, wow, this sounds a little different. When I came back,
 I was on a wonderful it was. Chris, I almost had a hard time putting it into words. It's an experience.
 Some of us tangible, but a lot of us just internal. That is the toughest thing. Again, this is
 why we love to have people who have gone through talk about it, talk through it because it's one of the
 toughest things for people to do. We have so many folks, especially a lot of business owners that send
 their team members through. What am I going to expect? You just need to go. What is it? You just need to go.
 It's so difficult because it's different for every single person coming through. But our focus is still
 the same. Our goal is to help, again, like I said earlier, our focus is to help people to get to the
 why of how they make decisions. The why behind things that they didn't understand. Some folks have had
 crappy childhoods and that causes them to make different decisions in life. Some people have had no
 problems whatsoever, but they are plateaued and they can't figure out how to move past it. And it's
 that helping of people to get to this place of understanding, again, the root system, which is the
 basis of the whole event. And so if you guys have not listened to understanding your root system, go back
 and listen to that podcast. Getting to that place of seeing, "Oh my gosh, there's the, I know the
 what. A lot of people know the what. Half the people coming through know the what, half the people don't
 even know the what. But once you see that why it starts to come together. Why am I overwhelmed? Why am I
 taking the responsibility of my job and everybody else's job? Why do I feel like I need to run 90 miles an
 hour even when it's time for me to settle down and rejuvenate? Why are all these things happening?
 Once you see that why it's that great revelation. Now that's, I'm going to make that assumption,
 but let me ask you, what's the greatest revelation that you received from the next level of life?
 Well, you know, what you just said about the root systems, that is something I think about on a daily
 basis. But when I am how I'm responding to someone or when I'm questioning why I'm in the
 predicament I am at that time or why someone around me is that thing a certain way. I constantly
 think about my root systems and that is something I did not realize how those roots that we all have
 are still so strong. You know, and I guess I guess they do say with you for life, I'm assuming
 mine are going to just continue to impact me, but the fact that I'm aware of what they're doing
 and it helps me know how to respond in different ways. And you know, maybe not be so hard on myself
 and sometimes I used to do that. You know, and I think it's easy for people to become a victim
 and it gets you to forget that. I mean, you know, we're all victims. Everybody is a victim of something
 or, you know, just how to accept that and move forward. That is so powerful. What you just
 said, I mean, we all are some of our real victims. They've had something horrible that's happened in their life
 and some of us life has not gone the way that we wanted it to or, you know, we've got some,
 you know, again, those impacts in our life, those things that have caused us to make decisions
 a specific way or go a different direction. The great thing is that it doesn't have to be that way.
 And I think that's the thing that so many people like you said earlier that the biggest fear
 coming into it is the unknown. That is literally the same answer. We've done over 300 events,
 300, that is the same fear that every person has coming in. They say it in different ways. They'll say,
 "Well, I don't know we're going to find out. It's the fear of the unknown." For all of you high
 deeds out there when you come in the door, I'll go, "Hey, you're a high deed, so you're going to say
 you have no fears and they just laugh." That's really, let's be honest. What do you worry about?
 They're like, "Well, I just don't know what we're going to find out." And by that's,
 there's always the same thing. We're going to find out anything you don't already at least have
 some idea about. Like, "No, not really." And so once we get in, we do discover tons of stuff.
 But nothing that is like, "Oh, I should be ashamed." "Oh, I should feel horrible about
 myself instead. It's the exact opposite, right?" "Oh, now that I know this, I can do this differently."
 In your case, I don't have to be overwhelmed. I don't have to do everybody else's job. I can
 actually allow people to do their thing and operate from a different place. So let me ask you this,
 the events that you shared, the stuff that you've been talking about pre-nex-level life.
 How would you continue, or what would it look like now, responding to those events,
 had you not gone through your next level of life? "Oh, my goodness." I'll tell you, my
 one regret is that I did not have the opportunity to experience this prior to selling my businesses.
 And maybe even, you know, many, many years ago, early in my business, or even up to the point that I did
 sell. And I'll tell you that was one of the questions I had when I had this opportunity to attend,
 it was like, "Does this really relate to me?" You know, I'm not in a career anymore. So for those who are not
 running their businesses or still involved in their career at some level, this is critical in any
 one's life. I mean, actually, it has changed me at a time that I really needed some different
 behaviors in a different way of thinking, because when you've worked for 40 years and you're driven,
 and then all of a sudden, there's nothing, and you don't know where to go, what to do, and if it's okay
 to relax and enjoy. And, you know, I was, I think I was probably unique, and then, you know,
 when I hear Cindy talking about all the folks that go. So I think it would have been extremely beneficial
 years ago, and I probably would have been less stressed as I finished up my career and sell
 my businesses, but I really think it came at a great time for me when I was at a crossroads, right now,
 not knowing where I'm going, and what I'm supposed to be doing. Yeah, God has funny timing.
 I could tell you, there's not a person on the planet. It doesn't need to go through next level
 life. We have had, again, so many business owners, so many business leaders, we've had so many
 spouses, we've had stay at home spouses, we've had teenagers, our youngest folks that have come through
 were twin 16-year-olds that went through their events separately, obviously.
 Everybody needs this information. You're at a different place in life now,
 right. I've had so many people say, Chris, where were you 20 years ago? I was like, preparing for this.
 So, yeah, getting trackery. But yeah, it is amazing thing how no matter where you are in life,
 this applies to you, this affects you. What was the most empowering thing? Like,
 you can say you walked away from next level of life. Who? I mean, probably the most empowering thing
 was accepting who I am and knowing that I don't have to prove myself to others,
 that God does have a plan. As long as I feel like I'm listening and turning to him,
 that everything is going to be fine. Right. So, what did try and change you?
 It didn't try and make you a different person. We didn't try and make you go become a missionary in Africa or
 something. No, you did not. That's one of the things that a lot of people are like,
 "Is this going to make me have to go be something that I'm not?" No, not at all. I mean,
 I am the same person, but I feel like I know myself better. I've taken time to get to know myself better,
 which I think very successful business people don't focus on themselves often. And so they're busy,
 doing everything else. And I think that's a mistake. And as you said, I think next level of life is for
 everyone. I'm glad to know that you've had teenagers go through it. As a middle school teacher for many
 years before I ran that franchise, that's such a critical time in someone's life. And wow,
 you could really turn some kids around by helping them see why they're doing it at that time. And what's
 important? And how to respond to triggers and all those things? And you're just looking at their
 core values. It is so powerful because again, look at where you are. As you're saying, if I have this
 20 years ago, it's one we do. I love it when. And it's usually parents have gone through. And they're
 like, okay, our kids need to come through this. They need to experience this. They need to take a look at,
 you know, the stuff that we've learned and help them to overcome this before they get where we are.
 The amazing thing is, and if you take a look back on your life, you have a from a man's perspective,
 from a human's perspective, so much identity in the business. There's so much identity in
 what you've accomplished. There's so much identity in being an entrepreneur. There's so much identity
 there. And what we show people is, and you know, we say every single time on the show business is what
 you do, it's not who you are. That is not your identity. You're also a grandmother, a mother,
 a mother, a wife, a, you know, there's so different aspects to you. And the biggest aspect of everything
 is that your child of God. And that you belong to him. And so many people get stuck in this my
 identity is what I can produce. My identity is in what I've accomplished in life. That's where my
 worth is. And praise God that at this point in life after selling off your identity,
 that you've been able to walk through this and go, oh, yeah. Those are great accomplishments. Those are
 from all the accomplishments, but there's so much more to me than this. So we've talked so much about
 you. How has this impacted your relationships? Oh, um, well, I think, you know, it's part of the experience.
 My husband did attend with me. And I think having, um, everyone who tends, I think having that
 significant other involved is critical. I can't imagine him, donning not, have been there with me.
 Again, it would have been hard for me to put into words what I experience. And also, he, he understands
 himself better. Even though he didn't really go through it, he kind of sort of did, you know, like a
 flower in the wall. But I think it's made us understand each other better. Communicating is a whole
 lot easier. You know, understanding each other's personalities. And, you know, I remember him saying,
 he learned so much about me that he didn't know. So that was powerful. But no, I feel there's a
 more of a sense of peace, you know, and just our closeness. And then with my daughter-in-law and my son,
 obviously, with Cindy had a gone through it, she and I can truly relate to one another because we have
 experienced it firsthand. You know, and we share different things that will help each other.
 We talk about, you know, how we're handling situations. And then, it, me, I'm thinking of how
 I react to my son who has not been through it. And even my grandchildren, you know, how I can do
 different things or, and I'm consciously aware of what I say and how I say things and making sure they
 understand where I'm coming from. And I feel like I understand them better. So I think the communication,
 the relationships have all changed for the better as a result of attending and going through the next
 level like this is this is what I love, right? This gives me chills. Is the fact that not only a mother,
 but a grandmother, have gone through those twin girls who are so precious.
 Now that you both realize how much we impact our kids, our grandkids' root systems.
 You know, for me, I absolutely love everybody who knows me knows I'm crazy about kids. I love kids,
 I love kids, I love kids. I would have 20 if I could. I love kids. I'm crazy about them.
 And early on, for me, because I love kids, you know, somebody would come around, you know,
 we had kids in the, we have kids coming in the office all the time, you know, people bring their families
 in and all that. And so I was the kind of guy who would go, look how cute you look in your
 little dress, your look how handsome you are with your little vest in your tie on. Oh my, and it was years
 ago, Meg Meeker, who is phenomenal, great parenting coach, great author, all that kind of fun stuff.
 She had punched me in the face with something, and it was the, hey, you need to be
 complimenting the character that you want. Here I am teaching this to adults. Here, yeah, this is a part
 of what I do for a living, but when it comes to the little ones, instead of complimenting on their
 character, complimenting, I'm literally training them to in 10 years from now, turn to Facebook to get their
 worth. Right. You know, to turn to Instagram to put selfies up to get their worth. And it's like,
 I'll show you the breaks. And so for me now, and I'm sure you're experiencing this now, and I'm
 sure Cindy is as well, is that it is so much more important and so much more valuable to complement the
 Christ's likeness. Oh my gosh, that was so great the way you took care of your sister today.
 Hey, thank you for helping mommy. Hey, thank you for listening when I told you to do what to do. You know,
 when you compliment those characters because people do what they repeat what they rewarded for.
 That's right. Then all of a sudden, instead of becoming the Becky of overwhelmed,
 it's my responsibility to do my job, your job, your job, your job, your job, that all of a sudden you
 start focusing on the character. Right. And it's so powerful. So that I love that both of you have
 gone through, we're still trying to wrangle in the men. Yes. Get them in here. But that you guys have
 had this impact. So not only your relationships as adults are different, but the relationship with
 those kids is different as well. So I'll let that. So Becky, what would you say is out of everything?
 What would you say is the greatest change that you see in yourself now? I would say the the greatest
 change would be I think how I react to triggers today. I try to, I think I'm trying to listen and process
 how others may be impacted by how I react with them. And I try to use that to respond
 without judgment. I really try not to assume, which I, I think boy, I think I was the the biggest
 assumpter of the weather was. I mean, I can look at people for wherever I even spoke to them and I'm
 already assuming something and judging. I'm not perfect in this yet, but you know, I'm very aware of how
 to become better at it each day. And something that's probably the biggest change for me is really just
 how I look at others and how I respond to others. Yeah. And it's a funny you say, I think that's just
 and yet how powerful is that. Yeah. It's huge in your life now because the look at how much stress it
 removes, how much responsibility it removes. It doesn't take away the the true responsibility,
 the right responsibilities. It takes away those fake ones. Exactly. That you can
 introduce yourself that, you know, are yours. So you know what Chris, you just you trigger
 something when you said that to me, you know, when when you're judging people and assuming things
 before you even have gotten a chance to learn more, that calls us more stress for yourself. As you said,
 I mean, it really is a huge stresser because you immediately start thinking about all of the things
 that you're assuming and it builds up stress. And we all know that we need to control that stress in
 our lives. Yeah. And folks, as you're listening to this, there are tools that go with this. This is
 the thing about next level of life. There are tools on how to solve this and how to get over that and how to
 to check yourself and change the way you're thinking. So all the things you're hearing Becky say,
 that's the great thing about this process. As it comes with that tool belt to say, okay,
 here's how I stop doing this and stop the assumptions and stop the, you know, the judgments.
 I can think of times in my past where I, and now it's great because I'm, I'm able to get over
 this stuff super fast. But early on in my, in my days when I started putting all of this stuff together,
 and I'm making these, you know, we call it battling the lies with the truths and battling the lie,
 which the lie is, oh, that person just did that because of this. You know, and I find myself going,
 not get off. You don't even have any perspective whatsoever. You don't even know of that truth.
 You're not even talked to anybody about that. Not good off. And what if it is true? What? And by putting
 those tools in place and practicing it, and that's the thing like you said, you've not perfected the
 shit, the guy who teaches this, you know, I do this almost every single week with with somebody coming through.
 And I've not perfected it. I'm just so much better at it now because of the practice and the
 practice and the practice and it helps me to get over faster. So I love that you've got those tools in
 your belt. So we've got a bunch of folks out there that are listening to this. Many of them can relate
 to exactly what you've been through. Many may be on the other side of this, but they're wondering,
 why, why should I come through this? What would you say to the person who's wondering if they need
 a next level of life or not? Well, I think everyone would benefit from next level of life. It is
 like I said, a one of a kind experience that is like changing, not can be, but it is like changing.
 I think the intensity and depth of this experience is almost too difficult to describe.
 It's something you have to experience. You know, like I said earlier, almost have a lot of words when
 I'm trying to explain to friends what it's all about. All I know is when I finish talking to them,
 they won't some of it. They're like, how do I do? Because it really is personal and it is so fulfilling,
 it is extremely positive, even though it's difficult as you're going through it. It's a very emotional
 experience. And I'm sure going through next level of life is unique to each and the
 jewel sense. There are no two people that are exactly the same. However, I strongly believe that anyone
 and everyone really should go through next level of life. Absolutely. If you could go back to a
 Becky, 20, 25 year old Becky, what would you tell her? Oh my gosh. And it could be anything.
 Yeah, I would tell her to be her authentic self. To say her approval from God, not others, to stop worrying
 because God is in control and that God gave each of us unique talents. And he knows how we're going to
 use them. And he's going to lead us to what we should be doing. And he does have great plans for each of us.
 So I would say focus on being your authentic self. I think, you know, my adaptive self,
 which I have learned is what it is, is the stressful Becky. You know, it just, you know, it's performing
 to get things done. When really your authentic self is just as good. You just, you know, it's less
 stressful. Right. And focus, that is one of the most powerful pieces of the event. Because as you said,
 day one, I always tell people day one, today one and a half is intense. It's powerful. It's stressful.
 We call it the emotional day. We don't have people live in crap from the past. That's not what happens.
 It's tough because we're walking through and seeing things and then we're learning about them.
 And that's what makes it so difficult and tough. But then we put it all back together. And one of the
 biggest turns in most powerful turns is when you discover your authentic self. Yeah.
 And that, you know, we go through this whole process. I'm not, I don't want to give people too much
 information on this. But we go through this whole process. And when you see who you authentically are
 compared to, you know, like you said, the adapted version of you that you're choosing to be right now
 that you're living right now. Those, so if those frustrations that you're experiencing life,
 those platos that you're experiencing in life, those relationships that aren't healed, all those
 things, the, the not feeling good enough, not feeling worthy enough, feeling responsible for others
 happiness, feeling responsible for other success. All of those things are elements that you're telling
 yourself, are your responsibility. Right. Well, that you're supposed to be. And when you see that
 authentic self, it is this, I was going to say slap ups at the head, but really it's this massive hug
 of just, oh my gosh, that's who I really am and that's who God made me to be. And I like that
 person way better. Would you agree with it? 100% totally. And you know, I wish I had gone through this at age 25.
 Yeah, I think my life would have been a whole lot less stressful. And you know, I think I've had
 a good life and I'm happy with what I've accomplished, but really I think I've enjoyed it a whole
 lot more if I've gone through this. Yeah, it just gives you a different purpose in life. Yes. Well,
 Becky, thank you so much for doing this. I appreciate it. You're a rock star as well. Thank you for
 joining us on the episode. Thank you. It's been my pleasure and I certainly hope others will
 have the opportunity to experience what I experience, what's in the experience and I'm sure
 so many others that have gone through this. When we look forward to it, well folks, there you have it.
 Here's somebody with a great change, different perspective, better perspective on her life,
 even in a different shift in life that is had a powerful impact by going through next level of life.
 So here's what I want you to know. You can have the same thing. And you don't all you got to,
 all you need to do is just discover it. So we have got this set up for you, Chris Looker.com/discover.
 So that you can learn more to take the next step. That's Chris Looker.com/discover. You've heard
 the same fears that everybody has. That is the fear of the unknown and yet nobody. And of all the
 interviews you've ever heard on the show. Nobody's ever walked away from next level of life going,
 oh, crud, I discovered something I don't like or something bad. And you know, this wasn't worth it.
 I've never had anybody walk away saying that wasn't a life-changing event because it is. So take the next step.
 Go to crudsecretal.com/discover. Learn more. Take that next step. Thank you again Becky.
 I appreciate it. Love on those babies. I hope we get to see you here again.
 Bring the husband back and we will rock his world as well.
 Thank you, Chris. I appreciate it. Thanks Becky. Well folks, there you have it. Hopefully this
 has helped you today. As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business,
 change your life and join us on the next episode.