 Have you started to drift from your original purpose?
 Are you settling for less in your business?
 More on that coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life.
 And discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 Let me ask you a question.
 Let's say you had a bucket list item of selling across the globe.
 And so you reached out to a company and learned that their entire mission and method is to just
 set sail and see how it goes.
 No determined timetable, no charted path, no real mission to get you to a specific place in a specific way.
 At a specific time, would you hop on that boat? Of course you wouldn't.
 But if you would, we'd have a whole other set of problems we need to talk about.
 Now we all know that that would be insanity, right?
 We would get lost, we'd become shark bait, and anybody got time for that.
 So here's the thing, today we're talking about what is your defined purpose for your business?
 Or for the team that you lead or for the roller, or what you hope to accomplish,
 is there even a defined purpose?
 Usually, whether there's a lack of defined purpose, there's a lack of mission or mission statement.
 Or you have a mission statement that's useless, or you haven't even used it, or you're not
 leveraging it to drive results and keep your company and your team aligned.
 So let's start from the beginning of a mission statement.
 And what that is, or what a mission.
 So we're talking about a mission is the ultimate thing I'm talking about today.
 But a lot of people focus on a mission statement.
 We have a whole lesson inside of next level mastermind that teaches on this kind of stuff.
 The formal definition is the written summary of the aims and values of a company,
 organization, or individual.
 Now what does that even mean?
 For me, it's stating the purpose of why you exist.
 Let me say it again.
 It's your purpose for existence.
 Now, you can have a personal mission statement.
 You can have a team mission statement.
 You can even have a project mission statement.
 You can have a business mission statement.
 No matter what it is, people get all kinds of crazy around this and come up with all kinds of stuff
 and try and make it sound corporate and try and make it sound something that they can slap on a wall.
 That's fine, but here's what I find all the time.
 Nobody even knows what it is.
 So let me ask you this question while you're listening to the show,
 ask yourself this question.
 Do you know your mission statement by heart right now?
 Could you repeat it to me right now?
 I can worship in God by loving His children and guiding individuals and organizations to
 greater perspective.
 No, I don't have a note here in front of me.
 No, I didn't think about looking that up.
 I know that inside and out.
 That's exactly what we do.
 That's our mission.
 Our mission is to worship God.
 Our mission is to love his kids.
 And our mission is to guide people to greater perspective.
 Now people will say all the time you've changed my life.
 People do. They say you've changed my life.
 You've changed my business.
 You've changed all these different things.
 The reason why our mission is to guiding people to greater perspective is because we can't actually
 change you.
 We can only get you the greatest information you have to change yourself.
 So that's why that is what it is in our mission statement.
 Now let me ask you, were you able to repeat back your mission statement?
 If you were not, there's the first problem.
 The next question is, can your leadership team repeat the mission statement?
 In all of my years of doing straplans, in all of my years, I have yet to have a leadership team
 be able to repeat the mission statement.
 Not once.
 Not once has everybody on the leadership team been able to repeat the mission statement.
 At best I've had one or two people and that's it.
 And in any straplan event I've ever done.
 Why? Because we don't really understand what a mission statement is.
 And why we should have it. The mission statement is a foundational guide for direction and objectives.
 And it should be a guide for you to make in-depth decisions.
 It should be guiding your decision-making processes.
 It should be the thing that drives your purpose. It should be your purpose.
 So if you don't know what your mission statement is, red flag, right?
 What's that you do? If your leadership team doesn't know it, I guarantee you your team does not know it.
 If you're on the leadership team and you're not the business owner and you don't know the mission
 statement, well again, red flag, right? Then I would ask you, what is your purpose for showing
 up every day? And I would also lay down money that if you don't know the mission statement,
 then your purpose is usually to come and make a paycheck. It's usually to show up and get approval
 for productivity. It's to show up and get people to say that you're great or you're amazing.
 Because that's what else are you going to go for? If there's not a greater purpose, what are you showing
 up for? People show up for multiple reasons? Money, which tends to be every business that does not have a
 great purpose, personal productivity or praise, which is how can I do as much as I possibly can to
 get people to recognize me and notice me? And the third is if somebody has put a phenomenal mission in
 place and it's bigger than themselves, then people will show up for that. For those of you that have
 been in our office, you have no doubt, are people show up every single day? Because of our mission,
 it's way bigger than us. It's about changing lives. Well Chris, that's great, but look at what you guys
 do. Yeah, I get that all the time. All the time guys, listen, I'm in the same boat with you. I understand
 what it's like. I know what it's like. I came from where you're at. That's why I'm teaching this stuff.
 That's why I've been doing this for decades, right? I can't tell you how many times I've heard they
 will, you know, what if all you do is poor concrete Chris, what's the great mission there? Let's take a look at
 it. Are you pouring concrete in the same hole for 40 hours a week? Well of course not. What are you doing with
 that concrete? Oh, I don't know, building a driveway or building a patio in the backyard. Well,
 what happens when you build that patio? What are those people do with it? I don't know, have barbecues
 on it or sit out in Sunday or whatever. Okay, so it enhances their life.
 I never thought about that. Yeah, I guess it does. Okay, then you're doing something that's changing
 somebody's life. You're not just pouring concrete. The only time you're just pouring concrete is
 if that's what your focus is. If you don't get to see if you don't have a leader who's helping you to
 see something bigger than that, then that is your purpose. Just poor concrete. Get a paycheck.
 But when you can see that your changing lives are affecting lives, now the purpose becomes something
 bigger than yourself. So you have to ask yourself, do I have a mission statement? Do I know it?
 Does my team know it? Does my leadership team know it? If they don't, all right, number one problem.
 Second thing is, is do I have a mission statement that's driving me or the team? Let's say that they
 do know it. Is it just a plaque on the wall? Or is it actually doing something? Is it driving the team?
 Every day my team shows up and they know we are to love on people. We are to take care of people and
 take care of them well. When somebody walks in the door, you greet them. You take care of them.
 You know, we've got people coming in every single week for events. Every week? How do you treat those
 people when they walk in the door? There's a reason that people keep coming back. Our clients are
 next level mastermind clients. Every time they come in, we do quarterly retreats here, or they show
 up, you know, doing the next level. I first drop a letter or something. But when they walk in the door,
 so many of them walk in the door, and literally say, I'm home. Folks, that is a powerful thing. The first time
 I heard that, it just blew me away. I've heard it so many times now. It just warms my heart every time I hear it.
 That people are coming into a culture into a place where they know they're going to be taken care of.
 They're going to be loved on like family. It's not a side show. It's real stuff. It's genuine.
 People love showing up to take care of other people. So does your mission statement drive your team? Does it
 drive you? How is the mission statement being lived out in your culture? Can you see it?
 If you can't see your mission statement being lived out in your culture, intentionally. Now,
 if you're looking at your culture and going, well, we accidentally do live that out. It's
 not an a digital thing. That's a problem. That's not what we're looking for. We're looking for
 you to be able to see that it's being lived out intentionally. Right? So we're going to talk about this and
 what that looks like. Folks, I want to talk to you about something I am really excited about. According to
 our yearly surveys, the number one struggle for business leaders for three years running is lack of
 direction. So we're doing something new to help leaders solve this September 19th through the 20th.
 We are hosting a line to discover and develop the right direction for your business. Now, this is hands
 on. It's a hands-on workshop style event. In 36 hours, my leaders and I will work with you to align
 your business with the compelling mission, vision and strategy. You'll figure out the right direction
 for your business and develop a great strategy to get there. There's a lot more info and 40 spots
 available and until July 3rd, you can get a great discount on your tickets. So learn more at
 christlicardo.com/aligned. Again, that's christlicardo.com/aligned or text the word aligned to 4 4 2 2 2 again.
 That is the word aligned to the number 4 4 2 2 2. So we're back and we're talking about
 mission statements and right now mission statement align. What does that even look like?
 So our mission statement, how it came to be. So for me, let me go back in time. I need to
 do do do do little like my other thing. The point main group. Let me start out with how the name
 came about. So when I started this business, I knew that the brand christlicardo was going to be the
 brand, but I wanted a corporate name that represented who we were. And so I reached out to a fantastic
 friend of mine and said, hey, I need a corporate name. Give me some ideas. Give me some thoughts.
 And she sent back the name Poemaine, P.I. M.E.N. And I read this. This was over text and I went
 Poemaine, that sounds lame. And so I said, I said, some of the text by saying, hey, I appreciate that,
 but that sounds lame. And she goes, "Christ, you need to look this up. This is you. You're a healer.
 This is who you are. And so I looked it up. And it was a specific time. By the way, Poemaine is
 Greek. It's a specific type of shepherd. They kind of shepherd who loves his flock. Heels his flock.
 Feeds his flock would leave the 99 for the one. You know, that type of person. And it just floored me.
 I was just blown away that that's how she saw me. But I still thought the name, ah, people are going
 to mess that up all the time. So I actually reached out to a bunch of our top followers at the time.
 This is a long time ago. I reached out to our top followers and I said, hey, guys, throw out a name.
 We're looking for a corporate name. Give me some ideas. Never told them about Poemaine.
 And out of 10 people, 10 people responded immediately to them came back with an employment. Now,
 to me, three people coming with a name that I've never even heard before, plus it's a Greek name.
 It's not like it's just a word that people are, you know, focusing on on a continuous basis.
 I knew that was a god thing. And I knew that God was trying to tell me something.
 That this was going to be more than just helping people in businesses that we were going to be
 shepherding people and helping, you know, to grow people and lead them in the right direction and
 feed them spiritually and literally how come to our offices, you will actually eat lamb as well and
 buy some and all that kind of fun stuff, which we unfortunately have to suffer for you guys and eat that
 every week. Yep, me and Joel, when Joel and I do events and now Rebecca's on board, she's going to be
 doing events. So that's how our name came about. It was not long after that that I was still focusing on,
 okay, what is our mission? What is our purpose here? And at this point, God is showing me more and more
 stuff of how we help people. And again, constantly we would get and still to this day we get people
 would say, "Christ, you've changed my life. This business has changed my life. Your team has changed
 my life. Being in this event with you with Joel, with, you know, sitting through the retreats. Your team is
 amazing. You guys have changed my leadership team. You've changed my kid's lives. We hear that all
 the time and we praise God for that and we are humble and we receive that. But here's the big key
 one, what we will tell people is listen, we just got it you to the information you chose to do the
 heavy lifting. We got to do that great perspective. You chose to make the changes in your life. You had to do this.
 So thank you. We are blessed that we could be a part of your life. But you actually made the changes in
 your life. And so as I was putting the mission statement together, there was one thing I was very aware of.
 And that is that I wanted worshiping God to be the biggest focus. When people come through,
 no, I don't think I've ever actually shared this on the show. But profit is not our number one
 motivating factor. God is changing lives as number two. At best profit is our third motivating factor.
 Now we will have businesses come through and leaders come through and business owners come through. And we
 will do so much to help you grow your business, grow your profits, grow your revenues, grow your team,
 grow your communication, grow your accountability. There's so much stuff that we will do to help you.
 But one thing when it comes to us is God is our number one motivating factor by far. And next is
 changing lives. How do we help people ever since? Gosh, I don't even know how long you guys
 probably just heard Tom Ziggler on the show recently. I was blessed to be able to meet and spend time
 with his father back all jesus early 2000s. What a phenomenal guy. And I'll never forget sitting there
 while Zigg was talking about less and if you just help enough people, if you just help enough people,
 the money will come. Everything else comes. Just help people. The best you can.
 And that was a powerful piece for me because I had spent my life helping people.
 Now in my early days I helped people because I was a people pleaser. So I helped people because I
 felt it was my responsibility to make them happy. And God showed me that, nope, that is not it.
 You're supposed to do this for me. Do all of this work as into me. That is unto yourself. So that was a
 big shift in my life. So as we put this business together, one of my main focuses was, you know,
 if I'm worshiping God, what's a great way to worship God by loving his kids, taking care of his kids.
 Now obviously, I put this took a lot longer than what I'm sharing right now to put the mission
 statement together. If you put it together in five minutes, it's probably not really summing up,
 you know, your purpose. But for me, I'm looking at the purpose of this business and I'm thinking,
 worshiping God's God to be at the top, loving on his kids is God to be next.
 And then what is the greatest thing we can do? If we push aside the thought that we've changed
 lies because it's not that we literally changed them. People had to do it on their own. Then what does that
 mean? And one of our biggest focuses in every event that we do, whether it's next level of life,
 whether it's strap plan, whether it's with our next level of mastermind clients, is that we guide people
 to greater perspective. Perspective is massive. When you have got the right perspective, when you
 have got tons of perspective, when you have removed all the bad perspective, it changes the way you make
 decisions. And so for me, it immediately hit home. We guide individuals and organizations
 to greater perspective. Now again, this took a while, but that's how we came up with our purpose.
 We show up every day to worship God. We show up every day to love on his kids. We show up every day
 to guide people to greater perspective because if they have greater perspective, they can make incredible
 decisions whether it is in their marriage, whether it is in their parenting, whether it is in their
 leadership, whether it is in them owning a business. So that is our purpose. That's why we show up every
 day. Now, how was that lived out in our culture? Well, I've shared a bunch of that. You can't walk in
 the door here without being mauled by people. Hey, welcome. So glad to have you here. Come on in. Do you
 want some coffee? By the way, we serve good coffee here. Do you want glass of water? Come sit down.
 How are you? Where are you coming in? I mean, it's just people stop their day. Yep, they stop their
 productivity as they do my air quotes. To love on people walking in the door. They help them.
 They guide them. They take care of them. And they're coming in a lot of times. You've heard on the
 next level life podcasts, the biggest fear people experience coming in is the fear of the unknown.
 People come in going, I don't know what we're going to discover. Only to leave going, well, that was
 a silly fear. There wasn't anything I discovered that I didn't already know something about.
 You're not going to discover something that's shocking and surprising to you that you never knew
 and it's going to hurt you. But people still come in going, I don't know what's going to happen. There's a
 there's a trepidation. There's a level of fear. So our job is to put about ease. How do we help them?
 How do we serve them? How do we take care of them so that they can feel comfortable walking in this building?
 So that is a big part of how you see that work down. The way that we stop and moments in prayer for
 clients, I couldn't even give you a number of the times that we stop our business because something's
 going on with a client and bring everybody who can into our event space, managed private clients.
 Every Thursday before we do a next-level life before the clients get here, we're praying for clients.
 We're doing things to worship God, we're doing things to drop people closer to Him. So it's being
 lived out in our culture and it's part of our decision-making process. It's not part. It's every bit of
 our decision-making process. There shouldn't be a decision that's made that does not align with our mission
 statement. If this is our purpose, then every decision needs to be made around it. So we don't try and
 take advantage of clients. We don't, that's not our thing. We care less. We will not receive
 clients who are going to be controlling abusive jerks. If they're not willing to work with us and learn from us
 and grow from us, we don't need their money. We don't care. God's going to send us other people.
 A big thing was strap plan. The owner or CEO or president, whoever's the energy of the company,
 if they're not willing to go through next-level life, I'm not taking a strap plan. You keep your money.
 I don't need it. If you're not willing to see the things that your root system and how it's affecting your business,
 then, sorry, I'm not going to do your event. Why? Because that would not be worshiping God.
 That would not be loving on his kids. That would be enabling that would be allowing people to
 only focus on the things that they can control or want to control. That's not what we're here for.
 We're here to help people make strong decisions, change their lives, make better
 decisions, better families, all that kind of fun stuff. In our decision making, when you even take a
 look at our branding, when you take a look at our icon, our logo, there's two pieces, there's two
 elements in there. There's the Shepherds' Creek. Currently, there is the arrow,
 which is probably changing to the Shepherds' rod. The concept of that is, is that we are the
 Shepherds' that we're trying to lift people up or trying to, if you take the Cric on the end of
 a Shepherds' Creek, it's to help the sheep. It's to help pull people up, pull them out of bad situations.
 The rod is to defend. It's to fight off the things that are affecting it. And so for me,
 I originally put in the arrow because a sword isn't that came up, I'm like, no, that's ridiculous.
 That's too warrior-like. That's not the concept. The concept is defend. Take care of people,
 help defend the innocent, help defend people that are going through ridiculously bad situations.
 And we may be changing that to the Shepherds' rod. So that's how it even takes a part in our decision,
 make a process. What it comes to things like our branding. So how does mission statement,
 alignment look in your business on your team in your role? We're going to talk about the
 alignment right after I let you know about one of my favorite services at the Boyman Group.
 Next level, life is our two-day personal discovery experience. It's a one-on-one personalized
 event where we guide you through a process to help you discover your root system. To get unstuck in life
 and discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace. Imagine this, what if you could wake up
 every morning with a clear purpose? What would it look like to have healthier relationships with
 less conflict? Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years, if you had clarity,
 purpose and peace? Probably a big difference for more you stand today. Now, I know it's possible
 because I've been where you are asking myself, is there more? There is, and there is a better way,
 and it starts with next level life. You can go to Chrissacorda.com/discover to take the next step.
 Now, if you're struggling with this contentment, regrets or not feeling good enough, which most of
 you are, if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking, don't keep going through
 the same motions every single day. Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace. Go to
 Chrissacorda.com/discover and take the next step. So we're back, we're talking about the mission statement
 at your organization should explain to each team member why they do what they do, and it should be
 visible in your culture. So, at the front of the show I asked you, do you know your mission statement?
 Does your leadership team know your mission statement? Does your team know your mission statement? If those
 answers are nose, then those are big red flags. Why don't they? If they don't, then obviously they don't
 have the same purpose. Their purpose for showing up is definitely not what you intended it to be,
 because it obviously can't align with the mission statement that they don't know. If I don't know what
 my purpose is, then I choose my purpose. You might be lucky and some of them actually accidentally align,
 and hey, that's great, but once again, it should be driving why they show up and why they do what they do.
 So if we don't have that, that's the first big red flag we got to figure that part out. The second
 question to ask is, do they know how their daily tasks are aligned to it? Now this is a huge topic,
 and we're going to be releasing an episode next week on the task result gap and how to get your team
 aligned and accountable to the mission producing results instead of completing just a task list. And I can't
 wait for that episode. But the key is, if their daily tasks don't align, well, Chris, how in the world
 can every task align? Well, if you look through their tasks, all you have to ask is, does this task
 align with the very purpose of why we're doing what we're doing? What you may discover and discover
 quickly is, and this happens with a lot of businesses, you may have areas of your business, you may have
 roles in your business that do not align with your mission. They were put there at some point because
 it seemed like a smart idea, it seemed like a good idea, you might have people doing things that really
 don't align with that process or that purpose, and until you get that laid out that mission, it makes it
 very difficult to know whether or not people's daily tasks are aligned to it. So question for you,
 if they're not, if their tasks do not align with your mission statement, what does that mean about the
 tasks they're doing? Are they doing the smartest stuff? Are they doing the things you want them to do?
 Are they producing the results that you want them to produce? There's a good chance that if it
 doesn't align with your mission statement, then no. They may be focusing on something that you want to boot,
 you know, you want to get rid of. Or maybe your mission statement is something that you inherited from
 somebody else, and you never actually sat down and wrote one for one you took over leadership or whatever,
 and maybe it needs to be read done. I don't know, but the key is, is it's very difficult
 to lead people toward a purpose when they don't know what the purpose is. It's very difficult to hold
 people accountable to their daily tasks being a part of a purpose if they don't know what it is.
 So how do we get that mission statement in place? How do we get alignment with the tasks? Can you see
 another way is, can you see the mission statement being reflected in the actions, in the attitudes,
 and the conversations that you have? Now for me, I'm always going to say that culture comes down
 to two things, actions and attitudes. Do you see those actions that align with your mission statement?
 Do you see those attitudes that align with your mission statement? It is not uncommon for me
 and this rarely ever happens, but if a team member does something that does not align with that mission
 statement, I will call it out. Something so simple as breakfast or food here. In this culture,
 the ladies are going to go first. I don't care. The men can all stand and wait. The ladies are going to
 go first. When we have clients in on a Thursday morning and we have men and women clients coming in,
 the ladies from the clients are going to go first. Then our ladies, who know that their
 butts better be standing there ready to go, not somewhere else in the building, Lali Gagan,
 because that we now have clients waiting on us, they're all standing there ready to go.
 And they dish up their food. And then our gentlemen clients come in and they do theirs and then the
 rest of the men on the team go. That is something that is an action and an attitude that I have pushed
 in this business. We serve people. We honor people. We love on people. We do things with right
 attitudes. We don't jump in line and go before our clients and take food. We just don't do that.
 It doesn't happen. There's nobody on this team that does that because they know that would be ridiculous.
 Serve the client. Take care of the client. Let them go first. We'll go after that. We've got plenty
 of time. We're going to be good. When you watch the conversations around here, there is rarely a
 tough conversation that is needed to be had in this building with this team. There's plenty of
 tough conversations as we help people through events and stuff. But what the team, there's rarely a
 tough conversation that has to happen. Why communication is so high as a core value inside of this business.
 Why? Because when you communicate well, you can love on people well. You can take care of people well.
 When you communicate well, you got people to better perspective. So it is not difficult for us to
 see it being acted out in every area of this business. So that question is what I want you to ask yourself.
 Do you see your mission being reflected in the actions and the attitudes? Do you see it being reflected in
 the conversations? Do you see it being reflected in the tasks? Are your leaders leading and making decisions
 according to your mission statement? If these things are not happening, then we've got to do something
 about that. The more your mission statement drives your culture, the less time you will spend
 fixing bad actions and attitudes. Now if you haven't listened to last week's episode on creating
 a culture of champions, it's episode number 320, make sure you go back and give that a listen. If you haven't
 already, we'll put it in the show notes. So here's the thing. We have a download for you. If you haven't
 done your mission statement, it hasn't been refreshed in a while or no who really knows what it is.
 Well, then we're going to give you a PDF to help you out with this. It's going to have nine questions
 for you to ask to craft that statement, refresh it or remind your team why there is a mission statement
 there in the first place and what it is. So you can download that at christlecordal.com/321. That's
 christlecordal.com/321 and you can get that download and get started on that mission statement today.
 Leader, here's what I want you to know. Team member who wants to be a leader someday, business owner,
 whoever you are that's listening. You need to have your purpose laid out. You need to understand
 your purpose of why you show up every day. Once again, business is what you do. It's not who you are.
 Don't show up and let your job, your role, your business, be your identity. Have a greater purpose
 than that. Have a purpose that aligns with your belief systems. Have a purpose that, you know,
 for those of you that are believers have a purpose that aligns with God. Have a purpose that your whole
 team can get behind every single day. If you do that, then you will do what we say at the end of
 all these shows. As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business,
 change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]