 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the show.
 Well, folks, I hope you're having a fantastic day wherever you are.
 One of the things that drives me crazy in life and that is being in an environment of overwhelming
 and constant noise.
 Like I remember back in the early days a long time ago when I was in youth ministry that we
 would have all of this noise.
 We would have this parent that's trying to tell us how we should do things and this parent
 and this parent over here who's given their suggestions on how all this stuff should be done.
 We've got other ministers trying to tell us how we're supposed to do everything.
 Even some of the kids would be telling you, and the thing that we are trying to focus on is
 bring kids closer to Christ.
 Get the do a better relationship and a better understanding of God.
 And there is everybody in their uncle that has their idea of what's the best thing to do.
 And the funny thing is, what came along with that is their ability to complain about things as well.
 So it just became this constant noise of you should do this.
 No, this is the thing.
 Nope, you got to do this thing over here.
 And I just loatly listening to the preferences over what was important as I do my air quotes.
 The noise of preferences could oftentimes distract from the highest priorities.
 You shouldn't do three events with the week with the kids.
 You should only do two.
 Hey, you guys aren't doing enough stuff.
 Oh my gosh.
 What we're trying to do is get your kids to a better relationship with God.
 And all of this noise just continue to happen.
 That's something that kind of drove me nuts in that process.
 So let's talk about noise.
 Now that's obviously leaving out all of the amazing things that came along with being a
 youth ministry.
 That's just one of the things that drove me nuts.
 But let's kind of talk about noise and what that looks like maybe possibly in your life.
 So here's what I want you to do.
 I want you to answer this question.
 How many notifications do you get a day?
 Now really quickly.
 If you have an iPhone, I want you to go to your settings.
 Scroll down to the select screen time.
 You may not have ever done this before.
 And look at the and make take a couple of little different buttons in there.
 But I want you to look at the last seven days of activity on your phone.
 How many notifications did you get?
 Now this may shock you.
 But the average iPhone user gets,
 price yourself for this number, 1377 notifications per month, per month.
 And that is just to their smartphone.
 That's not including their computer.
 That's not including their tablet.
 That's not including their email notifications on their computer.
 That's not including the text messages outside of the iPhone that you might get somewhere
 out or whatever communication that you have that is tagging you throughout the day.
 Then on top of that, you're getting desktop notifications.
 You're getting social media notifications.
 You're getting news on your TV.
 You're radio.
 What's your friends?
 Family neighbors are telling you.
 And it's no different in leadership.
 There is constant noise.
 And the funny thing is, and that's why we've done such a great job setting up next level of
 mastermind is many times you're getting information and leadership noise and leadership from people
 who don't know what it's like to be in your shoes.
 Who don't know what it's like to lead.
 Who don't know what it's like to lead from where you are.
 Constant noise.
 There are leadership podcasts.
 There are blogs.
 There are social media feeds.
 What your leaders, coworkers, or accountability partners are telling you about the latest science
 on communication, culture, or business.
 Everyone has the new trick that will change your world.
 The new strategy that changes everything.
 So they say, you've heard me talk about this a lot on the show about the magic pills.
 We're bombarded with trends daily.
 Just constant noise.
 And it's so much from people who have the thing that's going to change your life.
 The thing that's going to change your leadership.
 The thing that's going to fix your business and grow all of your revenue.
 Now, here's the kicker.
 So much of it is keeping us from doing what actually works.
 Newsflash.
 What actually works is nothing new.
 There's a reason why no one has actually reinvented the wheel.
 It has been updated, but its core function has literally never changed.
 In leadership, what actually works is it new either.
 What works are the same principles, the same practices that have built thousands of successful businesses.
 Now, I believe the world according to Chris, that what makes most businesses not thrive isn't
 that they aren't staying up to date.
 It is that they aren't building their leadership.
 They're teams and their companies on the foundational leadership principles and skills that are proven to work.
 This is why for our next level leadership live event a few weeks ago,
 I went back to the core principles I teach in next level mastermind.
 It's the very things that I teach to our clients.
 Now today, I want to talk to you about three things.
 Number one, are you growing or getting distracted?
 Number two is your growth measurable and producing results.
 And number three, how to cut the noise and do what works.
 But first, I want to tell you about next level life.
 Next level life is our two-day personal discovery experience.
 It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover
 your root system, to get unstuck in life and discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace.
 Imagine this. What if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose?
 What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict?
 Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years?
 If you had clarity, purpose, and peace.
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today.
 Now I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself,
 is there more? There is. And there is a better way. And it starts with next level life.
 You can go to Chrissacorda.com/discover to take the next step.
 Now if you're struggling with this contentment, regrets or not feeling good enough,
 which most of you are, if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking,
 don't keep going through the same motions every single day. Learn how to move past
 the things robbing you of peace. Go to Chrissacorda.com/discover and take the next step.
 So the first thing that we're going to talk about is, are you growing or getting distracted?
 So are you growing your leadership or are you being distracted with trends?
 Now keep in mind, I literally have a leadership show. I teach leadership events. I teach,
 I have a leadership and business owner next level mastermind group, which is really a crazy
 solid accountability group. I have strap plan. All these things I teach people, but the
 difference is in a world of magic pills. In a world of people, I get videos sent to me through
 Facebook of people trying to sell me on how I'm going to make millions of dollars by doing their
 new latest thing. Here's the crazy thing. Whenever a company comes in through strap plan,
 the thing that we tell them is this program we are going to look at revenues and we find on average
 2.4, 2.7 million dollars of revenue in the next 12 months that they didn't even plan on.
 But that's not our big focus. Our big focus is finding all the things that are holding you back.
 We don't have the magic pill that you plug this thing in and next thing you know, your whole world
 becomes Nirvana. The whole world becomes amazing. Instead what we have is the things that have been
 proven to work. We cut all that noise out. We focus on the things that are holding a company back.
 Now, here's a few lies that creep in when the issue is distraction. Lie number one is,
 I can revolutionize my leadership in my team in a month. You've probably heard that line.
 You may have even convinced yourself of that line. If it sounds too good to be true,
 it probably is. Now, if someone is claiming to have a magic pill, they probably don't. It's probably
 x-locks and you're really going to regret swallowing that pill. Now, if you find the real elusive magic pill,
 do me a favor and email us at uranuckelhead@crystallicur.com and I'll buy it from you for a million dollars.
 I'm sure right about now you're picking up on my sarcasm and getting my point. There is no magic pill.
 Line number two is, I'm out of my depth. Now, there can be so much noise and new stuff. You think
 you're way out of your depth. When really, it's just that you're drowning in noise and you really don't need
 to implement the stuff that you're hearing. I have a lot of times where people will come to me and say,
 Chris, I have listened to every podcast, you know, every show out there that's talking about this. I'm reading
 all these blogs. I've read all these books. I don't know what to do and that's when I say stop.
 You're probably stuck in the leadership crazy circle. You're probably stuck with so much information.
 It's so much junk that's telling you all these new things to do and new ways to do it. You need to get that crap away.
 Stop doing that. Cut out all the noise and focus on the things that work. Shift some things around
 instead of believing you need some complete overall that you're actually incapable of
 focus on the stuff that really does work. Cut all of the new fangled stuff out. I'm not saying that
 there's not great ideas out there. That's not what I'm saying at all. I hope you're getting what I'm saying.
 I'm talking about everybody out there who's trying to make a dollar by selling their ideas and the stuff
 they're selling is a new package the way of doing something and it doesn't actually work. It's not helping people.
 So don't focus on all that junk. If you need to stop listening to everything out there except for the
 Chris LaCurdo show, which obviously is the best thing you need to be listening to, get rid of that crap.
 Quit putting more stuff in your brain that you can't do something with or you're not doing something with.
 Instead, get the stuff from people who have proven that the stuff they're talking about actually works
 and start implementing those things. Now line number three, if it's too hard, I'm doing something wrong. Oh my gosh.
 Listen, you have to put in the work. Just like there's no magic pill. There aren't any shortcuts either.
 Now, if you're completely burnout again, you may be in the leadership crazy cycle and we'll link to a podcast on killing the leadership crazy
 cycle in the podcast notes. But here's what you have to understand.
 Nothing is going to come to you by not working. Nothing is going to come to you by shortcuts.
 You have to actually put in the work. The Bible is very clear on this. The diligent prosper.
 There is again a ton of noise out there saying, you actually don't have to work. You can get everybody else to do all this stuff for you or you can work short amounts of time.
 It's an amazing thing. It's working so well for the people selling it. How come we don't have a world full of people who don't work now
 in or making tons of money? Think about that for a second. How come not everybody is only working a short period of time and making millions of dollars?
 If it works so well, then it would work for everybody. You've got to work. You've got, I'm not saying that there aren't great things you can implement to make you work smarter and not harder.
 That's not what I'm saying at all. What I'm saying is you can't sit around and expect that things are just going to fall in place because of a magic pill.
 You can't sit around and believe that you don't actually have to work and you're going to get everything that you want in life.
 That's not it. That's not the way to do it. So this concept of, oh, well, if it's too hard, you're doing something wrong. No.
 It has been very hard for me to build the businesses that I own over decades and yet they're successful and yet they work and yet we have happy people and I'm happy and I love what I'm doing.
 So it took time. It took energy. So you've got to put some work into it. So here's the question to ask. Are the things I'm investing in?
 Bringing me measurable success or are they keeping me from success? If you've got so much noise in your life that you don't know what to do,
 if you have so much input and advice even from people that are just on shows, people don't know or or friends or relatives that aren't in the same situation that you're in,
 then cut the noise, cut the noise and do what works. Get the information of how to be successful by people who actually do this stuff.
 So number two is your growth measurable and is it producing results? So if you're growing as a leader, there will be a ripple effect. There's just no doubt about it.
 And what you can measure, right? So here's some examples of results from doing the leadership work that actually works.
 46% increase in net profit in 12 months. 22% increase in gross revenue. 25% increase in team productivity.
 These results that I just shared with you, these are the results of our clients after having implemented our foundational leadership lessons.
 Not any magic pill lessons, not any newfangled thing. These are the actual results from people who've implemented our foundational stuff.
 By killing the leadership crazy cycle, which by the way is the first foundational lesson we teach everybody in the next level mastermind group.
 Cindy Taylor of Carolina Therapy Connection, she grew by a hundred and sixty three percent net profit in eight months, eight months. Not by throwing more money in marketing or sales.
 But by leading instead of executing tasks by making stronger decisions by implementing the foundational leadership lessons in our mastermind program.
 Folks, I'm telling you this and you can tell I'm stressing this because I want you leaders to start discerning what is noise and
 distracting you from growing and what are the things truly bringing you results in transforming you and your business. What I love about doing what I do
 is that it's not just Cindy. I get to see it over and over and over again with all of the businesses that we work with.
 Now number three, now let's get practical. How to cut the noise and do what works. Number one, take inventory on what you invest in.
 Whether it's coaching programs, podcasts, books, whatever leadership and business products you consume,
 pay or free. People used to tell me all the time and I already went through that one. Just like I shared earlier,
 of the folks that used to tell me all the time, Chris, I'm going through all of this stuff, I'm reading all this stuff, I'm listening to all this stuff
 and I just don't know what to do. Again, stop. Don't shove so much stuff in your brain that you can't get to that doesn't make sense or is not actually helping you. It's not doing anything.
 If you're putting a bunch of information in and it doesn't benefit you in any way, then guess what, it's just becoming more noise.
 Number two, regularly measure your results and track the success of what you invest in. Let me say that part again.
 Measure and track the success of what you put your time and your money into. You have to start with being able to measure the overall business results to be able to connect your leadership results to it.
 So, write down what content is simply giving you new and more information and one content is leading you to take action steps to positively change.
 So, do you have KPIs in place for your business, for your leadership team, for your team as a whole, do you have clear processes to look at the numbers to see what is and isn't bringing results?
 You need those things, put those things in place. Number three, as a leader gets solid on your KRA in KPIs. Now, now that you know where the business is, track where you are.
 Do you have a solid KRA? Do you have solid KPIs? Think about things like how many hours am I spending per week leading my team?
 You know, how is my teams productivity? Are their culture killers on your team? Are results being accomplished or is there a task results gap?
 Now, let's reference the last episode if you didn't listen to that, go back to it. Here's what I want you to see.
 If you're so task saturated or so focused on task, you're so focused on magic pills, you're so focused on implementing the next new thing, then guess what?
 Most likely, you're having problems in your team. Most likely, your team is nowhere near as productive as they can be.
 Most likely, there's things going on in your culture that you may know about, you may not know about, but you're not getting to them. You're not solving them.
 And as you've heard, probably episodes, I don't know probably 12, 14 episodes of Bow McDonnell talking about how he got all this stuff off his plate from killing leadership KRAZI SECCO.
 And now he's leading his team 30 hours a week. And as he put it, it's exhausting. It is. But the productivity coming from that team because he's leading now is phenomenal.
 So take a look where are you on your KRAN KPIs? Are you doing the things that are creating growth inside of your team?
 Or are you bogged down at a ton of tasks? Are you just stuck in the leadership KRAZI SECCO? So here are weekly action steps that you can do right now. Here's a download that you can do.
 We have a simple PDF summary of those action steps. If you want them in front of you this week as a reference to keep you accountable.
 Now you can download the free PDF at krisacrilo.com/325 that's krisacrilo.com/325 to get that download. That way you can start implementing the things that work.
 You can cut the noise and do what works. Get that today and start focusing on those right now. Well folks, hopefully this has helped you today.
 Thank you again for joining me today. I hope it has served you well. I hope that I have served you well. I encourage you to subscribe,
 rate, review and share the podcast to help more people join the community. Now, as always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next episode.
 (upbeat music)
 (gunshot)