 [Music]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show folks.
 Today you're going to hear from a phenomenal leader on how she led her team to unity and drastically improved their productivity.
 How she created a culture of unity and working toward a shared mission.
 How she got out of overwhelmed on the leadership crazy cycle and gained time back to invest in her family.
 You're going to hear all of this from Cindy Taylor, who is a wife, she's a mom, she's a leader, she's a business owner,
 she's a licensed occupational therapist and she's an implementer.
 She just gets things done.
 Now she owns Carolina Therapy Connection, which works with children and teens to reach their goals by collaborating with families to create the best therapeutic plans and care.
 And they do a phenomenal job.
 Now I wanted to share this with you because there's a lot to learn from Cindy.
 Now this clip is from our latest next-level mastermind retreat that we have in our event space here in our office.
 And it's also led by Joel Fortner.
 So I hope you enjoy this interview.
 Now before we dive in, I want to tell you one more thing.
 Next-level life is our two-day personal discovery experience.
 It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover your root system.
 To get unstuck in life and discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace.
 Imagine this.
 What if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose?
 What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict?
 Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years, if you had clarity, purpose and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today.
 Now I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself,
 "Is there more? There is?"
 And there is a better way.
 And it starts with next-level life.
 You can go to Chrissacrid.com/discover to take the next step.
 Now if you're struggling with this contentment, regrets, or not feeling good enough, which most of you are,
 if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking,
 don't keep going through the same motions every single day.
 Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace.
 Go to Chrissacrid.com/discover and take the next step.
 We love to do these interviews at the retreats because it's about celebrating wins.
 It is about man going behind the scenes on what you all have done that benefits all of you all.
 So it's about what can you learn, what can you glean what applies to you and your own business and your leadership,
 as you learn from one of your own.
 That's put stuff to practice and I'll tell you, "Sindi is an action taker."
 You can just ask her, "How do you take action?"
 And that would be a gold-mind question.
 She is a, like, "Fare a teacher?"
 She's like, "Awesome."
 Because I will talk and she's like, "Okay, I'll do those things."
 And then a month later, it's like, "Okay, I saw it did that."
 But now this is the issue.
 And it's action that she takes.
 So it was a big, big year.
 Let's go back in time a little bit of what was going on that even got you.
 When you talked to Ryan almost a year ago, far member correctly,
 what was going on that even led you to joining this program?
 So a lot was going on.
 I was our business was growing.
 So we had been in our, right, we were going into our 90th year.
 So I've been, I think it was February when I, I think it was February March.
 So we were going into our eight year and it was crazy busy.
 We were expanding, but at the same time we were still having,
 like, we were having a lot of staffing issues.
 There's a lot of immaturity in our, in our group.
 And it was, I was doing like all the roles in my business.
 I'm a therapist too.
 So I was doing the therapy in addition to trying to run the business.
 So basically what happened is Ryan, I overheard him, like,
 keep talking about this program that he was doing.
 And I thought it directly related to his business and had no clue what he was talking about.
 Until like one day I think he was talking about next level life.
 I think maybe.
 And I was like, okay, tell me more about this.
 Because I had always struggled with like the management piece of my business.
 Like, I'm a really good therapist.
 But the managing side of it is really difficult for me.
 So I was always trying to find somebody to coach me like within my business.
 So we're in allied health.
 So I was trying to reach out to different, like try find, try to find continuing a classes that would help me better myself as a leader.
 But I was looking at kind of in the wrong places.
 So I had even reached out to there was like these physical therapy consultant to have called me and they're like, hey, you want to help.
 I had to call with them and they're like, yeah, we can help you with referrals.
 I don't like, no, that's not really what I need.
 So Ryan was like, yeah, you really should look into it.
 And he just kept encouraging me because at this point I was like, I really have no clue what I'm doing.
 Like, just don't know.
 And I'm just really overwhelmed.
 So that's kind of what led me to research it a little bit more.
 So anybody ever been there?
 A little overwhelmed coming in and that's what kind of drove you this direction.
 It's like, ah, how do you know coming out and fix some stuff?
 And so tell everyone a little bit about more, a little bit more about your business anyway.
 What's the mission? What's the name?
 So it's Carolina therapy connection.
 And we work with just, well, we work with kids and we've expanded to adults.
 And we offer occupational therapy, physical therapy and speech therapy.
 We're in North Carolina.
 We have one location and we've got about 20 people or so on staff.
 And there's three of us on the, that we consider a leadership team.
 And yeah, that's what we, I mean, we have, we don't sell a product.
 Our providers are, you know, what we do.
 So they provide the service.
 And yeah, that's what we do.
 So in other words, yeah, you guys are in the business of changing lives.
 As we talked about this the other day. And then it was like when you get down to it,
 it's like you all are impacting families and kids lives in like a significant way.
 And so I think about that and think about your all's mission and being able to come alongside
 and help you all do that is like, man, that's powerful for me.
 That's powerful for our team.
 Do you even help you accomplish that mission?
 So tell us a little bit about what's happened since you joined this.
 So a lot has changed a lot.
 I think what has really, really kind of, well, let me go back a little bit because when I first started,
 it was really like really kind of low point in my life just in general because I was so overwhelmed
 and I had no clear direction.
 I had, I was actually getting advice from my mother and law who had run like six successful businesses.
 And she was just like, okay, I see you're overwhelmed.
 And at this point she was still running her businesses.
 And she was like, I think what you need is to hire a manager.
 Like somebody to take on the management side of things so that way that just will help you with that,
 that you're not that good at.
 That's like, okay, yeah, this is great.
 So in that, in the meantime, me joining next level,
 I had a mastermind, I had hired Taylor, office director and we were also like in the process of changing around so many things.
 We were getting rid of our billing agency.
 We were getting rid of staff.
 We were bringing on more staff.
 It was just so much change and such a short period of time.
 And nobody really knew what they were doing.
 I didn't know what I was really doing.
 So I think every single one of our coaching calls for probably the first two months were just me,
 hysterically crying.
 So what do you do?
 So what do you do this anymore?
 You weren't hysterically crying.
 One time I think I really was.
 I was like, I just don't want to do this.
 But yeah, and so it was really, really low, like really low.
 I just, I can't stress that enough.
 Like I just wanted out at that point.
 And it was weird because I had joined the program.
 And then before I even went to the next level of live event,
 I was like feeling like, okay, I had hired Taylor.
 I was like, okay, I really want to get out of this.
 Just this is not for me. This is way too much.
 I just, I'm done. I'm totally done.
 And so at that same time is weird because I had two potential buyers reach out to me.
 And we're like, hey, we're interested in looking at your business.
 I was like, maybe this is a sign.
 Maybe I really need to sell.
 Like this is totally not for me.
 And we went through that process.
 Remember telling you, I'm like, yeah, I think I'm going to sell.
 And then I think it was my husband who said, well, what are you going to do if you sell?
 Like what would you do?
 I'm like, well, I'll just help you with your business.
 And he's like, you don't think you're going to run into the same problems you're having now.
 So I think it was an eye opener for me because it put things in perspective.
 I'm like, yeah, you know what, I, this is, I just don't need to just flee this situation.
 I really just need to kind of get a grip on things.
 And so it's really helpful.
 What are some of the, when you look to yourself and your growth and your leadership?
 What are some of those keys that you learn that you got a grip on in this last year that turned a lot of things around?
 Well, I think the next level of life really just helped completely.
 I think getting more perspective gaining more perspective and realizing why I was making that decision.
 Like why did I just want to just dump this and say, okay, I'm just at a really low spot.
 I'm just going to say, forget it. I'm done.
 So that really helped me figure out, okay, why am I doing this?
 What is this, you know, what is this triggering?
 Why am I making these decisions?
 What's holding me back from actually just facing it on and kind of working through it?
 So I think that is help just me being able to gain a lot more perspective on, okay, why do I do the things I do?
 That really and just the whole me making myself accountable instead of just saying, okay, this is really tough for me.
 I want to out, you know, just done so.
 It's like the powerful thing and what you're, what you're saying for me is that it's, you're looking at your personal growth.
 You're emotional health that's growing.
 This is how it impacts your decision making is that who we are, we bring to the, we bring to the business every day.
 Our team member see who what we bring to the floor or to the business every day.
 And so that is that's so powerful to hear about, that's the personal growth that you've experienced.
 That's changed how you respond decisions that you make.
 How is that impacted? How do you engage your team members maybe differently than maybe how you did a year ago?
 Well, I honestly think that that is really what I needed is the next level of the personal growth because that's really what the problems that I was having in my business.
 That's where it was stemming from. It wasn't just me not knowing how to manage people and the business side of things.
 It was more of, okay, this is a personal issue.
 And I was a complete, tyrant as well. Like I was just like, okay, you need to do this, you need to do that.
 And I was a really wasn't viewing my team as people. I was viewing them as product.
 So I was like, okay, come on, let's go. Why aren't you seeing these kids?
 So I really took a step back and even like, just that personal growth through the next level of life had really helped me just, okay, these people are human beings.
 They have a root system too. And I need to respect them. I need to show them love and pour into them and really trust them.
 And I think that's what made all the difference because at first I was like, you know, why aren't you seeing this kid?
 You know, it was more of like the whole thing that Chris went over earlier. I was like, you're responsible for, or your team is not responsible for making use of successful.
 You know, so I think that was big.
 So early on, I remember some of the things we worked on. I remember you came in and like you were working, like super long hours, late nights.
 What's changed since then? And how did you dial that in and get some of that off your plate?
 So I think the biggest thing was going through the killing the leadership crazy cycle.
 That was for sure what has helped a lot of what we do in our business now.
 Like all of our leadership. That's kind of what we go through when we're all feeling overwhelmed and like, okay, let's take a step back.
 So that was the most important thing going through the lessons. Realizing, okay, I need to delegate these tasks that I should be delegating.
 I shouldn't be doing these. There's somebody better.
 And then that would just free up so much of my time and then trusting my team to actually do that and teaching them and following up with them.
 And that just that level of trust and it just took a huge weight off my shoulders.
 Because now I'm like, okay, well, I don't have to put my kids down and then automatically go on the computer and see, do they actually see these kids or did they do what I told them to do?
 So that was huge. And then, yeah, like I said, the really delegating it to people who, I mean, because when I hired Taylor, he was like,
 I'm here to help you. I really want to help and he was like, I just don't know what you want me to do. And I'm like, yeah, I don't know what I want you to do there.
 And then I would show him something and then I would do it myself. He was lost. You know, he was like, I don't know what is going on.
 So I think just trusting him and then teaching him and really pouring a lot of energy into that, not just saying, hey, these are your tasks. Go do it.
 You know, I think it really made a difference when I would delegate it. I would say, okay, tell me, what questions do you have, how can I make this easier for you?
 That kind of thing. So just gaining back all of that time in my schedule has been huge.
 Huge.
 How's so? And what are you doing with your time now?
 Well, we have two kids who are, they're twins or five. And so my husband also runs two businesses as well.
 So that's extremely difficult to have parents who have businesses. So I think a lot of it was, okay, who can, how can we, how fast can we get the kids down the bed?
 So we can each go to our separate offices and do our work.
 And so now we don't do that. We really just, and he's harder to kind of get into that mindset.
 So, but he actually has gone through some of the stuff, even after he went and sat in with my next level of life, he realized it's the importance of some of this stuff as well.
 So now we, we kind of hold each other accountable. We're like, okay, put down your phone. Like you can't do this.
 This is kids' time.
 We go and do our thing on the weekends and it's no work. You know, sometimes here and there if there's some stuff going on.
 But I think just the amount of time that we have and that we're spending it together instead of even if we're out together like still on our laptop, doing work, we're just making more intentional.
 Guys, oh my gosh.
 It's like, I hope you're hearing what I'm hearing.
 When you go through killing a leadership crazy cycle and you implement it, like this is what, this is why it's there.
 For your leadership that the personal side of this is just so powerful because the kids get a lot of their parents back, which is just like, well, if that, that just, there is emotion running through my body, just hearing that, that is because that play that out into the future.
 Oh yeah.
 Of how it changes your children's lives that then is going to change their children's lives because of decisions. Oh my gosh.
 I'm sorry.
 It's a crystal card elephant. Someone has to cry.
 It'll be both of us.
 That's it's so powerful.
 But I'm just, we're just super proud of you.
 But that's just amazing Cindy.
 So we'll get this now.
 Here we'll bounce away to something.
 So now let's take all of that and talk about besides all this. This is absolutely amazing. You all also had an amazing year financially.
 We did.
 What happened? How'd you do it?
 Well, 2018, well, it was the start of this all this craziness.
 And, but we kind of, what really kicked it off, I think was when Taylor and I went to the live event.
 Walking away from that, we were like, okay, there's a lot of things that need to change and we need to be the ones to do it.
 And this is not, this company is not going to go anywhere unless we really do this.
 So we just said, okay, from the first thing we did, first time ever, was set goals.
 We sat down like even like during our breaks.
 We were like, okay, we're going to brainstorm this.
 What are our goals? What how are we going to implement this?
 What are we going to do? Who's responsible for this?
 And the live event is totally, I mean, that was like life changing in itself too,
 because it's so much, it's so motivating and you're like so hyped up.
 And just setting the goals was like the first step for us.
 Like I had never had goals in eight years of being a business.
 Oh, okay. Yeah, this is probably something we need to do.
 So that was the first thing and then holding each other accountable and making sure, like, okay.
 Are we doing this?
 And calling back to drawing more and saying, oh gosh, we didn't do this.
 We said we were going to do it. Let's roll this out.
 And then just taking the time to do it.
 Like the whole killing the leadership crazy cycle, KRAs, all that stuff.
 We just did not take the time to do it until one time I was like, okay, I'm just going to sit down.
 I'm going to just pound it out and this is it.
 And we did and then we rolled it out to a therapist and the therapist were like all on board.
 Everyone was like, this is amazing. We love this because now we know exactly what expectations are.
 It's laid out black and white.
 Now when Taylor has his meetings with them, he knows, okay, this is what we're going over.
 This is what we expect of you.
 Did you meet this? Yes or no?
 So definitely what we did differently this year was whole people accountable,
 whole ourselves accountable,
 whole ourselves accountable, implement like crazy, be more intentional about what we were doing.
 So it wasn't we weren't just going into the year blindly setting goals and making sure that we are meeting them.
 And if not, we were constantly like, okay, how can we adjust?
 The bathing we did too was we implemented a lot more meetings.
 So leadership meetings, quarterly meetings with all the staff, discipline meetings, that has helped a lot too.
 So that's really like brought our team together.
 And they felt like they were being heard.
 So then it was like a different dynamic there.
 And then you just saw it.
 So when you just pause you right there.
 So everything that you did in 2018, what I'm hearing you say is that it impacted your teams in way in a way that led to a record setting financial year.
 Yeah, absolutely.
 You didn't go ballistic on sales and marketing.
 No.
 Yeah, I did.
 Yeah, exactly.
 We poured into our team versus, yeah, we just poured into our team.
 Even like Taylor when he came, he was like, you know what?
 It sounds really stupid, but for their birthdays, we really should get him a gift.
 Like we did like these cheesy little cookie cakes for everybody during the birthday.
 He's like, no, we need to, no, everybody needs to get a personalised gift.
 That's what we need to do.
 And it sounds so stupid, but it just makes a huge difference.
 Because I feel like, okay, yeah, you really care about me.
 He, like, we put together retreats and all these fun events outside of work.
 So that was huge.
 That was totally big.
 Yeah, this is so powerful because it's basically, it's like, if I do these things,
 it's going to not only impact the lives of my team, but then look at the financial impact it has as well.
 Revenue, gross profit, net profit.
 That's where, not, there's not about all about money, at least it's not going to be.
 It's not about for us, and I know for many of you, it's not the main driver, but it's like a hear that.
 Hear that, is that this is where that also ends up, what you're doing.
 It has a direct impact on the financial side and ROI, like hard ROI, which is awesome.
 We didn't even have a huge financial goal.
 We were just like, yeah, okay, and let's see if we hit it.
 We didn't focus on that at all, and every month, I would have an idea of what our P&Ls look like and all that kind of stuff,
 but I wasn't totally focused on, like, oh my gosh, we're not hitting our numbers this month.
 What are we doing?
 It was more of, okay, our team members happy.
 What's going on in their personal lives?
 What's happening?
 How can we make them more successful?
 What can we do here in the clinic as leaders to set them up for success?
 It's kind of thing, so.
 Yeah, all of that.
 Just again, Cindy's an action take, that's his slight inspiring, even to me.
 It's like you are an implementer, that's just huge.
 That's where Chris Camp is like, it's really quite simple.
 You just have to take action.
 It's called a time frame.
 You just have to do things.
 You have to just take action, and it's like, and you do that so well.
 So tell us where you headed into 2019, where are things going?
 In 2019, we set our goals somewhat conservatively, and I got a lot of kickback from our Sheila from Sheila, you're right, it was.
 So, well, and this is kind of like, I mean, I really just love having the accountability group because of this,
 because I set conservative goals, and I didn't really even, I didn't think I was doing it intentionally,
 but deep down I kind of knew why I was doing it.
 And they're not crazy because we are going through a lot of changes at the office, and we were expanding, we're doubling inside, so like half of our expansion is complete.
 Now, the other half, we're like completely gutting all of our offices, and when you have a group of 20 ladies who are all high-says, that's just not the best thing to make like crazy changes.
 So, I knew our goals were going to be conservative because we were going through so many changes, and we were having staff changes as well, that we knew we were going to happen in the future.
 So, I set some things lower than I normally would, and then Sheila came and was like, "Ah, this is just, you just don't even sound motivated by this."
 And I really wasn't, and then I talked to Joel about, well, and I thought I really kind of processed it, and I was like, "Okay, why did I set these goals?
 And then talked to Joel about it." I was like, "You know what, I don't want to go crazy right now."
 Because it really isn't. It is about making money and having a business, but it really isn't at the end of the day to me.
 And I think that's what next level I've helped me kind of realize, that it wasn't important to me.
 What was important to me was not going ham on some crazy goals and not having time to be a mom and a wife.
 So, I knew that my goals were going to be conservative this year because that was going to be my priority.
 So, our goals for 2019 is more focused on, "Okay, let's work on our leadership team. Let's work on getting a really solid foundation for our clinic and all of our policies and procedures and operations."
 So, that way we can grow in the future in 2020 or 2021. And that way it's kind of rock solid. So, we were really honing in on, "Okay, let's make 2019 really really good."
 And then 2020 will look at some crazy or goals. But for right now, I just don't want to go crazy on something that I know.
 You know, I don't want to stress myself out like that crazy. I just don't want to do that. So, there's other priorities to.
 So, you can, how would you describe how, how was your decision making changed a year ago to nowadays? How how you make decisions?
 I didn't really have a decision making process at all. It was just kind of like, "Oh, well this sounds like a good idea. I'll just do this."
 And then everybody should follow. Because that's what it is. So, and now it's completely different. I mean, now the first thing I do, if I even have a thought, "Pomp and to my head is all run it by Taylor."
 Okay, okay, what are your thoughts? Like give me some feedback. And then if it's something that we need to go to our team about, we'll text, collective intelligence and all that stuff.
 So, there's really more of a systematic process. And then we'll say, "Okay, well how is this going to impact this?" And how is this going to impact this?
 So, we're looking at all aspects instead of me just saying, "Oh, the sounds good."
 With that's huge. Man, girl, give it up for Cindy Taylor. There you have it, folks. This is what happens when you gain perspective.
 When you get the right information and you kill the leadership crazy cycle, so you can implement.
 So, you can implement. If you want to learn more about next level of mastermind and see these kind of results in your business and life, go to ChrissLicardal.com/mastermind again.
 That's ChrissLicardal.com/mastermind. Now, next week, if you haven't already, make sure you get subscribed so you don't miss when we release new content.
 Make sure you're getting the notifications and not missing it in the noisy world of social media and email.
 Go to iTunes or the podcast app wherever you listen to and hit subscribe.
 If you want to know more about this, click the "Subscribe" button.