 [Music]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 [Music]
 Folks, this is a special episode of the Chris LaCardau Show.
 A couple weeks ago, my team and I hosted our annual
 next level leadership live event, and we had a fantastic live Q&A session.
 What phenomenal questions?
 Today you're going behind the scenes and inside the event to see the questions
 leaders had and my answer is life.
 Before we do that, I want to tell you about one thing that will change your life.
 Next level life is our two-day personal discovery experience.
 It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you through a process
 to help you discover your root system, to get on stuck in life and to discover what's
 holding you back from freedom and peace.
 Imagine this, what if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose?
 What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict?
 Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years?
 If you had clarity, purpose, and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today.
 Now, I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself,
 is there more? There is. And there is a better way.
 And it starts with the next level life.
 You can go to Chrissacrita.com/discover to take the next step.
 Now, if you're struggling with this contentment, regrets, or not feeling good enough,
 which most of you are, if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking,
 don't keep going through the same motions every single day. Learn how to move past the things
 robbing you of peace. Go to Chrissacrita.com/discover and take the next step.
 Okay, here we go. I hope you enjoy hearing these leaders' questions in my answer's
 live from the next level leadership live event.
 So, Lauren asks, "I like to share my own personal growth moments with my leader.
 I thought it was because I was excited and wanted to celebrate.
 Now, I'm wondering if I'm a kiss up.
 How do I know if my desire to share is actually coming from an unhealthy place?
 So, what a fabulous question.
 Our intent matters so much. We can do something and say,
 "Well, this is an area where I've grown because it's demonstrating to somebody.
 I've grown in that area, or I want you to know I've grown in that area.
 And for their benefit of knowing, "Well, that's really great that you've grown there.
 Our intent in a agenda matters so much."
 So, as a lifelong people, please, or so much of my intent in a agenda was to make it about me.
 It was about, "Well, let me share this with you so that I can gain worth."
 Because I'm looking for it for me.
 I'm looking at what am I going to get from this by getting you to think this about me.
 Let me shape how you think about me, because I need for you to think about me and these
 these ways that I desire. It's all about me. It's my own selfishness. It's my own ego. It's my own pride.
 And I'll be in conversations with people a lot, and I will be checking myself. Why am I saying
 what I'm saying? What's the goal? Because I'm gaining perspective on myself.
 Is this to share with them? My leader for this reason? Is this about me? Is this to teach them
 something? Is this to show them something? What's my intent in my goal? So oftentimes people come to the next
 double life? It's like not to. This, this, this anymore. And there are things that are like no. Do it with a different intent.
 Do it with a different agenda. Check yourself on why am I saying this? And I think that's a place to be
 as when you're looking and analyzing and gaining perspective. Chris mentioned earlier today that
 he attribute so much of his growth to his awareness of his brokenness, his sin, his flaws, his mistakes.
 So that we can look at those things and say, "Oh, I can grow there." The awareness of what I'm talking
 about now is pivotal. I think a big piece to that is, it's not the things that I talk in that
 lesson or not to say, "Hey, you're a bad person." The point of the lesson is to help you not feel like
 you're a bad person. Now, if you're doing something stupid, you need to take responsibility and recognize
 that you're doing something stupid. But if I am sharing something with somebody and I'm wanting them to be
 excited because this is an excited thing. For me, I'm a high-eye, you know, I've got a lot of
 eye in me, I'm a high-ass, a high-eye, I've got a good amount of D in me as well. And I love to share things and get
 excited about stuff. If I'm sharing the thing to say, "Hey, look at how amazing I am. Don't you think
 I'm something special, then it's not healthy." Because the concept is, "My worth is contingent
 on your answer." Because what happens when they're not excited? Chris! Chris! Now I feel like a total
 loser. I feel like I'm not good enough. I feel you take a look at your response. So I'll probably
 share this with the group at some time. But I had that same high-c leader that I had a long time ago.
 I used to go to his office and I'd go "Dude, here's this thing I'm thinking of doing. I'm thinking
 of doing this and this and this and you go, "How are you going to do that?" And I'm like, "I'm not
 thinking about that yet." But look at it. Isn't it great? How are you going to make that happen?
 I don't worry about that part. What do you think about it? He's like, "Well, how are you going to
 do that, though?" And I'm like, "Forget it." I'm like, "Out." And I'm like, "I can't share stuff like that."
 Now I wasn't looking for him to look at me and go, "Chris, you're amazing. I knew he wasn't going to do that."
 So I wasn't doing it for my worth. I was doing it to celebrate. Look at this great idea!
 But when I didn't get the response, if I was there for my worth, I would be so deflated and then I would
 have to defend myself and I would have to really, no, but you don't understand. Let me show
 it to you. But you're not getting it. Let me and all of that would become that worth down
 or spiral. So there's nothing wrong with doing things like that. We want you to have joy. We want
 you to be happy. The problem is, is when you get so much of your worth from human beings,
 that you have to have it from human beings, then you're not getting it from the only consistent
 place that could possibly fill you up. Does that make sense? Good. Paul, I think that's Paul. Yes.
 It is. So when you were talking about awareness earlier and you guys are going over it right now,
 Chris, you mentioned that it's a major thing that's helped you to be successful as a leader.
 What are some of the things that you did early on once you, I assume, identified it to grow in that
 area? I don't know if I'm going to talk about this during this event. But one of the things I point
 at is when I was back in the days to be trade. And I started learning. So I've been leading people
 since I was 21 years old. Now, I've always helped people. I've always guided people even when I was
 young. A teenager. I was trying to help people. You don't take a whole lot of advice from a 14 year old.
 But hey, my heart was still there. But I got officially in leadership when I was 21. I was at E trade.
 I was on the ground floor of E trade well before it became public. You guys know the E trade,
 the commercials on the Super Bowl, all that kind of unsub. With the babies. Weird babies and stuff.
 The babies probably don't think they're weird, but that's okay. I started leading. So my first
 leadership job was assistant customer service supervisor. I was not even the customer service supervisor.
 I was the assistant. And I had been working with folks for a while now. And we all had really good
 camaraderie. We liked each other really well. Good relationships. I got the title of leader.
 And I started telling people what to do. And I started giving direction. And I started doing the
 leadership things that I had been taught to do. Anybody else do that when they stepped in their leadership role?
 And here's the one thing I praise God for. This is such a blessing. I think in my life. I'm a big
 noticeer. I pay attention. All y'all who've been through next level of life for Stratpline. I don't like, yeah,
 he does. We watch every bit of your body language. We watch everything that's going on because it gives us
 information. It feeds information. Oh, this is what they're experiencing. It's what they're going through.
 Well, here's what I started noticing. All the people that I liked stopped having a light in their eyes.
 When they were around me or I was leading or whatever, they were like, uh-huh. And they started
 responding to me differently. Praise God, I started noticing that at 21 years old. That became a piece
 of for me to go hold on a second. This isn't about you. And Josh shows going to answer your
 question first, which this is probably, this, my answer would be Josh asks, what's the most powerful advice.
 It's not about you. And I started to realize, wait a second, this isn't about me. And that
 really made a huge impact on my career that from that point was that 28 years ago, that number's
 not working. That's it. You know, right, 28 plus 21. God, Lee, that kid doesn't it suck for some of
 us, can actually say those numbers? Believe in your story. I don't believe that I'm that old. I'm like,
 it can't be 28 years ago. That I started to realize it's not about me. It's about you guys.
 And from that, instead of telling people what to do or being that kind of leader that I had since I was
 14 years old, because I've been working since I was 14 years old, I started actually
 doing what I now call tax in the collective intelligence. I didn't have a name for it back then,
 but I would start asking. So what are your thoughts on this? What's your input? What do you have to say
 and now it's starting? Getting in pulling information because I realized something at 21 years old,
 I realized I'm not the only one in the room who has good ideas. And if I'm the only smart person on this
 team, we're screwed. Because we don't need anybody else and I can't do anything else and I'm going to have to
 be the one who comes up with all the answers. And so I knew that couldn't be it. I knew that everybody else
 was intelligent or they wouldn't be at a place like that, right? So I started taxing the collective
 intelligence and bringing people into what I thought was my process. And I started discovering
 back then if I set people up for success, they became successful. Now, I was still doing it for me
 because I was a big people, please, or I hadn't learned all the things that I teach you guys in the next
 level. I've now yet. So I wasn't doing it with the greatest of intention. I was still doing it for me,
 but it was working. I was making them successful. Does that make sense? And so I promise you,
 if you want to succeed in leadership, it really is as basic as this. If you can make another human
 being successful that you're paying more than they already are, shouldn't you? What we get afraid of,
 and I'm going to talk about this in the next lesson is, if I start focusing on that, what if I don't
 know how to make them successful? What if I don't know how to make them better? What if I don't, what if I
 give up some of my stuff and I focus on them and then I fail miserably? Who's all that about me? So as long
 as it's about you, it's never going to be about anybody else. It just can't be. So the sooner you get
 that, the sooner you can lead better. So that makes sense. Does that answer that question? It does.
 Fantastic. Who's got the next question? First question is, what is submissive leadership rooted in?
 And then secondly, for those in that organization, what's the healthiest way to lead up to effect
 positive change in that? Okay. Do you want to jump on that? Yeah, yeah, I'll definitely hit this front
 part. There's a lot there. So I can look at my own story Brent and look at like being being a submissive
 leader. One that holds back one that falls under like, "I'm okay, you do what you want to do."
 No, that's fine. Let me not address certain issues. Let me be submissive to my team members
 because they were more dominant and I would receive it as, like, "Oh, this is bad. I'm being bad.
 Let me shut myself down and just ignore it." So much of submissive leadership can
 will be rooted in insecurity. Feelings are not feeling good enough, not feeling equipped.
 Feeling like I'm not as smart as this other person. All that internal stuff, we don't have to
 rehash the entire lesson here. But all of the internal battle is what holds me back. So I grew
 up with a very submissive father. Dominant mother, very submissive father. And there are times when
 I can be mom asked my wife, she's here. That's like a weakness that I had in the early part of our relationship
 was just, I could shut her down. I could just shut her down. Why? It's about me. I'm going to win.
 But then there are so many of these moments when I would be submissive in my leadership even from
 being at home, working for the Air Force at the time, working on this team, those moments can
 crop up because of my modeling, my teaching, my own insecurity that says, "My worth comes from you,
 Brent." So because I care so much about, "Well, I want you to like me, or I don't want to rock
 the boats, or you're a little more dominant, and I'm used to that shutting me down." I'm like,
 "Okay, that's good." And then I'll creep in my office and be like, "Why am I,
 whatever, and just ignore it and move on in my life." That was so much of my early leadership career.
 It's just rooted in all things root system.
 I would definitely say insecurity is absolutely the answer. It depends on what you came from,
 what root system you came from as well, of why that showing up the way that it is.
 For me, I grew up being wrong. I was the guy who hurt people. When I had absolutely nothing to do with
 anything, if something went wrong or went bad, did anybody have somebody in your life that if something
 was wrong in their life, you were the problem. Even though you weren't, you had nothing to do with it.
 If I pushed back a little bit or said something, how dare you? And then all of a sudden, I'm this horrible
 person. So I grew up in a lot of my life of if you were hurting, it must have somehow been my fault.
 It was my fault somehow and I didn't know how, but I definitely couldn't be that because it was so painful for
 me to be the fault of somebody else. The cause of somebody else is pain. In the first half of my life,
 if and this is the funny thing if you have somebody who's more demonstrative, they can see that and take advantage
 of it, where they will see that you will back down and they will put that right on you. And so for
 me in my life, if I felt that I was actually the fault or if I was causing somebody pain or hurt,
 that's it, I backed off. I would not allow myself. I couldn't be the reason why they hurt. And unfortunately,
 it had no bearing or no perspective in reality. What it meant was is that I took on, I chose
 in a very unhealthy way to be the problem. Instead of going, well, well, well, well, well, well,
 hold on. I'm sorry, healthy boundary here. I'm not the problem for your problem.
 I'm not the cause of your crisis. Don't dump this on me. This has nothing to do with me. It was
 an until I started to learn and I actually had to I had been coaching people for so long and
 I actually went through a very incredibly dramatic time of my life and I had a counselor that was talking
 to be going, do you see what you're doing? And I was like, oh my gosh, I'm doing the same thing.
 I teach people not to do. How did I not see this? So submissiveness and leadership can be rooted in
 many things. A parent who tells you that you're not good enough. People who tell you that you're not
 good enough. Somebody who rips you down and tells you that you're a horrible person. Somebody who
 gilts the living crap out of you. A lot of people in here may come from, you know, broken homes where
 you have a almost always. I've seen it maybe once with a man, but a lot of times with women,
 where the separation will happen in the mom, not understanding what she's doing will actually
 dump her emotions on the child she feels closest to. Anybody in here ever have that? That's called
 being a identified child. And what happens is that that individual. So you think about somebody who's
 probably in her mid 20s gone through a divorce or something like that has kids struggling in life,
 doesn't really have somebody to connect with. So she bonds with a child who's supposed to be
 a child. And dumps all that emotional stuff on that kid and creates this parent, what's called a
 "Parentified Child." Unfortunately, that child grows up having to parent everybody in be responsible for
 everybody's happiness. Put that person in leadership. What do you see? You see somebody who's
 submissive who's responsible for everybody's happiness, who can't let people hurt. They have to
 pull the hurt away, which tends to eventually enable people all of that. So ton of answer on that.
 There's more to that. There's even more to that. Believe it or not. But that's where a lot of that submissive
 is rooted in. How do you lead up? I'm assuming what you mean about that is if you have that as a leader.
 How do you lead that person? Yeah, more so in a bigger organization, the part of the organization
 I'm in, it's 800 people. Nationally, it's several thousand globally. And if most organizations
 I assume you have pockets of that rooted probably in organizational root systems, is there a healthy
 way to try to lead up to positively affect or change that leadership? Yeah. So one of the things we say a lot
 is we love counselors. We're glad that there's a world of counselors out there. There's one struggle that
 we have with counselors and that is counselors usually stay stuck in what we call the surface level.
 As you go through next level life, we show you what those surface level responses are, something like
 submissiveness, control, fear, anger, alcoholism, procrastination, whatever the thing is,
 you can get a ton of help and you should get help from somebody. Our struggle is we don't want you to
 cope with the surface level response. We blow past it. We spent a short period of time on the root
 system. In next level life we actually show you why the surface level response exists so you can actually
 change your decision making. If we teach you to cope, you actually don't change your decision making,
 you just push the surface level to something else. You may compartmentalize this piece but then it
 shows up in something else. That's a waste of time. We want you to grow from that. So our hope
 is that we can give somebody if you're leading somebody who's struggling from something and you can
 point them to somebody who actually can guide if you can see that they're struggling with something from
 their root system. That's always a great thing to do but that's not what you're asking. How do you
 lead somebody? You are not their counselor. You have to know that. You're not going to be the person
 unless you come in and spend a ton of time learning what we do to be able to lead their root system.
 But what you can do is pay close attention to the things they're struggling with and focus on worth.
 Focus on worth. The thing that they are struggling with more than anything is losing worth
 or trying not to lose worth. So if you have a submissive leader anywhere above you, beside you,
 below you, whatever it is, the thing that you need to focus on is what is causing them to struggle. Where do they
 struggle? When do they struggle? What's the thing that causes them to back down? And then you can be
 somebody here now, "Dies, get this idea in their mind. You just go and tell them, hey, don't do that.
 Stop doing that!" What was that Bob Newheart thing? The guy who comes in, he's the counselor and he's like,
 "Okay, I'm just going to take a stop at." What's that? He's an orthodontidivist. Stop it. Thank you.
 Yeah. Don't do that anymore. Okay. That doesn't help. It literally doesn't help. You have to show them
 what they're struggling with. Hey, why are you struggling with that? Hey, what are you experiencing in the
 moment? What are you feeling? Do you feel like, does that coming across something that is telling you that you're
 not good enough? Now again, you're going to have to be careful with the relationships because you may not be able
 to do that with some people, but others you will. There's an old saying we used to say is that you can't
 pop somebody upside the head unless your arms are on the neck. Right? So if you come up to just pop somebody
 upside the head, they're not going to listen to you. But if you actually show somebody that you care and you
 love on them, then when they're struggling, you can be there for them. So there's been many times.
 This is my brother in life. There's been many times we've been in events and he does not want to
 disappoint me. I know this. I don't want to disappoint my team. And so there are times it can be forever
 before you actually have a root system moment. And then all of a sudden out of the blue, Joe can have a root system moment and I'll go
 what are you struggling with and fan it's right there. He just sees it. Yep. Okay. Nope. Yep. And I mean the fact I love it.
 And again, that's why he's a facilitator because he can see it so fast and go, you know what? This is the thing I'm
 struggling with. But I don't sit there and rip his head off because that's not going to help. Instead,
 I lead. I help. I guide. Hey, what is the thing you're struggling with right now? The first time you say that to somebody,
 what's the hidee you're going to say? If you weren't even Chris Camp, I'd go straight to you. What's the
 hide you going to say? I'm struggling with nothing. I'm struggling with anything. Hide you's coming for next
 level life. Hey, what are you afraid of? I'll always say before the answer. Now you're going to say that you're not afraid of anything and they laugh
 because they're not. Let's get serious. What are you afraid of? I don't know what we're going to find out.
 You know, what are you struggling with right now? You know what that situation did you go so well?
 That meeting kind of sucked. Why did it suck? Go for the why? Why did it suck? Well, I didn't say the right things.
 What are you worried about? Well, I'll now afraid that's own so things I'm an idiot. What if they do?
 What if they do think you're stupid? Well, that's not exactly what I want. Okay,
 but why is it affecting you so much? Cache and I never thought about that before.
 When you care, you can lead. When you care, you can guide and direct. When it's about you being right,
 when it's about time tables, I'm at a time for this. I got too much to do. I got more important things to do. Like what?
 Tasks. Okay, you go do that. Then it's not going to be about the person.
 So to lead up, lead around, lead in any direction, must start with caring more about the other person first, then yourself.
 When you see somebody struggling, why? What are you experiencing? What are you going through?
 Help them through those processes. You can help them to an extent, right? To actually overcome some of that.
 Is all that makes sense? Yeah. Bridges. Yes. That's what I'm afraid of. Bridges, yes.
 Very high, D. Anyway, glad you didn't say spiders, but man. Not a big fan, but anyway.
 So when you're working with somebody who they suffer from like, what the phrase analysis by paralysis, right?
 However, that's weird. And you're trying to help them make a decision. What are some things we could use to help that person?
 Yeah. So analysis paralysis happens mostly by high seas. Why? Because it has to be all the right information.
 So what happens is a high sea already triple checks everything. Put them under stress.
 They quadruple check things. Right? Over and over and over again. What's the number of one thing that a high sea does not want?
 Well, that's the other thing. Number one thing they're afraid of.
 Right? Conflict change that kind of stuff. They don't want to be wrong.
 They don't want to sound stupid. They don't want to look stupid. They don't have to want to have the wrong answer.
 They want to have the right answer. It's vitally important. Season D's hate to be wrong have to be right.
 Right? The only difference is is once a deed discovers they're wrong they're like, oh.
 Okay. High sea discovers they're wrong. They're like, I'm not so sure.
 I still think I'm pretty right. So when somebody is struggling with paralysis, you know, analysis,
 paralysis, paralysis of the analysis, they have so much information that they can't make a decision. What's the problem?
 They don't have quality perspective. Over and over and over again. Whenever I see somebody struggling with too much information,
 what I like to do is I use it as a metaphors, put it all, get let's get all the information out on the table and start ripping things away that don't matter.
 So I will start asking questions. I'll see it does no good and as a fixer.
 What I want to do is just give them the answer, but that did not solve the problem. Right?
 Don't fix the problem because you didn't teach them anything. You just fix the problem and they may not even agree with you.
 Right? So instead what I do is I will start to ask questions. Now what's the struggle? What's the thing you're working on?
 And then I will ask perspective gathering questions until they see it.
 And the more I do it, I'll take something away. So what about this? Well this. Okay. So that means this is a no?
 Yeah. Okay. So that's out. Now, where does that take us here? Now what about this?
 And the more I ask perspective gathering questions, the more they start to see through their paralysis.
 What I say is when you freak you freeze. When you have so much information or you feel like you haven't gotten enough.
 Right? High seas? Because they're obviously, you can never be enough information.
 You have not searched out every inch of the internet. There must be more.
 The internet, the interwebs have more information. So maybe you need another three days worth of discovering information. No you don't.
 Get as much information. Take a look at and again, timeframes Josh is huge. You have this timeframe.
 To get as much information as you possibly can, then let's make a decision. If you give them the timeframe, they'll get the information in that time.
 If you leave it open ended, they will struggle, they will struggle, they will struggle. Get the information and then ask perspective gathering questions until they see the answer.
 Once you get them there, then the other leadership part happens, which is how did we get here?
 Now how did we do this? Now how can you do this next time? What questions can you ask next time?
 What could you have done to get to the sensor faster? Why did you struggle with coming up with an answer?
 What were you worried about getting to the results? Were you afraid that I was going to think you were stupid?
 Do you afraid that you were going to sound stupid? You get all of those pieces in and now the person feels good.
 Okay, I don't have to walk through that process. Does all that make sense?
 I'll add a little bit to this is that
 Put some other words on this is just when a high-s and C high C's feeling overwhelmed.
 Slightly different angle. When you look at yourself as a leader and leadership is about making your team successful, not the other way around.
 Making your team successful your team member in that moment doesn't mean just fix the problem.
 Well, it's fixed. So therefore I'm more successful and I'm successful really.
 Because I've tried to make you successful by training you how to think differently, how to grow yourself,
 how to solve these problems, otherwise who always becomes the problem solver of the leader?
 Well, that's great. If my worth comes from that, I love that arrangement. I'll buy that for $20 every day.
 But it's about what do I need to teach you and when you're stuck in the leadership crazy cycle and feeling overwhelmed
 with tasks and all the things you need to do. It's really hard to breathe and stop and say,
 "Let me care about you and training you up to teach you how to solve your problems."
 Because the process will go through is teaching them and you'll teach them that. We'll walk through to that.
 That'll make sense. Do you see how I got it there? Can you think you can do that yourself?
 They start attempting it. They start attempting it. They get better. They get better.
 And then eventually there's a point where accountability comes into play here.
 As you've taught them, as they've demonstrated success with saying, "You know what? I'm overwhelmed.
 Let me create a list of everything on my plate. Everything that I've got to do.
 Then I'm feeling like everything's important." Which is a struggle that personality stows all of it's important.
 Is it really because we're lacking quality perspective? Let's walk through all of it, reprioritize.
 What do you think about all of this? You will see this is helpful. I feel better about this.
 Do you think you can do this on your own? Absolutely. And you start working with them. And then eventually comes to a point where they come to you again,
 Josh and say, "I need your help. I'm stuck again." Okay. Did you do what I've taught you to do?
 Well, no. Help me understand why you haven't done what I've showed you five times and we've talked about over the last month.
 You need to go back and do that. Accountability now is a new level of healthy pressure
 that gets them to say, "No, that's exactly what I need to do. I need to implement what Josh is teaching me."
 And now my competence in what I'm doing is going to increase. I don't need to come distract you.
 Let's say I'm distracting. It's not always a distraction. But I don't need to bring this to you because who set me up for success you did?
 A lot of people understand this. I think I share this story during this event.
 I think I'll share this later on. So I won't actually go into the story, but Aaron West back there.
 I've got a fun little story that I'll tell it around. I think I do. I think it's an event. I think you do.
 I think it's an every event. I probably do share that story in every single event.
 But a lot of people come from leaders who did not foster their success.
 So they don't come with answers. So they don't come with drive to figure things out.
 They come with a fear that if they're not right, you're going to be disappointed so they don't take risks.
 So just as Joe was sharing, understand where your people come from. If you don't do the process that we just said,
 they're not going to choose to grow.
 They're going to stay at that level hoping you answer everything.
 And for you, fixers who fix and give answers to every single thing, guess what they will do.
 Come to you for answers on everything.
 Until you have to solve everything inside of the business. So by doing this process,
 it also helps them to think for themselves. So after you do this enough times,
 and you hold them accountable. And accountability isn't like, why don't you do the thing I taught you?
 It's like, did you do the thing? No, okay, help me understand why. Just like Joe was sharing.
 You know I didn't even think about it. Okay, go do it. Right now. Yep.
 But I really need an answer. Great. Go do the thing. Come up with an answer. Come back to me.
 Right? You're teaching teaching teaching teaching teaching. The greatest leaders have the heart of a teacher.
 All right, there you are. Are we done? Or do we have time for a more?
 I'll stop talking. What's that? That's, oh, that's a, that's a no we're done.
 That is a, let me make those guys happy because they want to answer more questions.
 Do we can we really? We have time for one more. Someone just got a question.
 Yep, Josh. Leadership is guiding people to a destination. This kind of new to me. And I'm curious
 when you say destination, what can you unpack that a little bit for me? Yeah, I'll talk a little bit
 about, nope, not at the Savannah. I won't. But think about it in mind. Okay, in Viz, one of the things
 we talk about is vision. Right. So that's a very confusing thing for people, mission and vision.
 So I'm going to do this very quickly and briefly. Mission is your purpose.
 Your company should have a mission. It should have a mission statement. But the statement means
 crap if it's not the purpose of the company. You should have a purpose that people look at as
 the reason why they show up every single day. Right? Does that make sense? So for us, our mission
 statement is worshiping God by loving his children and guiding individuals and organizations to
 greater perspective. People say all the time you change my life, you change my business, you change my family.
 We actually didn't. You actually did it. But we got it. You like crazy to the information to go and
 do it. But our biggest thing is we're going to worship God. That's where we are. That's our start.
 So that's the purpose. Our people know to show up to love on you guys, to love God and love you.
 And those of you that have been to our office, would you agree that that's what you've experienced
 for my team? There you go. Real cheese sandwich. That's what Paul, that's what speaks. That's Paul's
 love language. It's grilled cheese. Oh, the triple cream breeze, so much. He's in love with that thing.
 That's the red pepper soup. So vision is where you're going. This is where people screw this up all the
 time. Vision is the destination. So where you're going to go, that's the vision. So a leader should
 always be leading people somewhere. Where is that somewhere? So for me, I have to lead my company
 to a unified folks that have been through Stratpland. Know this. If you've not been through Stratpland,
 I will guarantee you you most likely have a shotgun approach inside of your business. And you have
 people going in 17 different directions and wonder why you can't get anywhere. You need a unified
 direction. If we can all go that place, we can get there. So I have to lead my company to that place.
 I have to lead my leaders to being better leaders. So I spend time making sure my leaders every
 single happens all week long, but every Monday and our leadership team meeting, I'm guiding,
 I'm directing, I'm leading them to where I want them to be. My leaders are great. They're phenomenal.
 But I don't stop learning. If I'm not done, they're not done. So my job is to get my leaders to be
 better and to be better and to be better and to be better. So wherever that destination is and with
 vision. So you have one mission, you can have 700 visions. It's the next one. It's the next one. It's the next one.
 It's the next one. It's the next one. It's the next one. We say next level life. There's not one next
 level life level. There is 700 levels. So my job is to always lead them better. My job is to lead
 them to a place of leading their people. How do I get them to be stronger leaders and not look to me?
 Right? I want to make sure, and I will remind them from time to time. Hey guys, don't forget.
 Don't wait for me to lead your people. You lead them. They're your people.
 Right? It's your job. Lead your people. So whatever that destination is.
 As a whole, I believe it is my job to lead my people closer to God. So we have insane devotionals.
 I think they're insane. They're pretty deep, pretty, you know, just we literally crawl through the
 Bible because of how much discussion that we have. I believe that's my job. So for those of you that
 are believers, here's what I want you to understand what the Bible says. Because you're a leader.
 How many people in here are leaders? Should be everybody in here, even if you don't think you are. Guess what?
 We have a higher call. We have a higher standard to God. People don't understand how many times in the
 Bible it says that God puts people in leadership. Good and bad. Many times God puts pretty bad
 leaders in place for his purposes. We're all held to a higher accountability as a leader. So it's my job
 not to make me look great. I have to stand before him and he's going to say what you do with my
 kids and I pray to God he goes well done. So for me leading to that destination, what is the destination?
 What is the thing I'm looking for? I want my leaders. This is a great example. I shared with somebody
 the three of us went to Israel for two weeks last year. There wasn't a leader at the building.
 The rest of the team was at the building two weeks ran by itself. I dealt with one email,
 I think Joe dealt with one or two, I think Heather handled one situation in two weeks. We came back
 and a lot of the clients in here were going, how many fires do you have to pull it out? Zero.
 We're talking about. We're not having fires. How could you not have any fires? And this is my answer.
 We do what we teach. That actually works. So by leading these guys really well,
 they lead their teams really well. We removed leadership for two whole weeks.
 And we didn't have a single fire. We didn't have a single problem. Let me rephrase. There were some situations
 I came up at the team handle and they rocked on with. So that's leading people to that. Where do I want them to be?
 Get them there and then ask the question, okay, now that we're here, now what do I want? Get them there.
 Get them there. A shepherd is always going to be somebody who leads from the front. The sheep will know my voice. Why?
 Because I'm not the front leading them to that place. That makes sense. There you have it folks.
 I hope you found that valuable. Now if you don't want to miss out on next year's event and get the best
 possible prices, go to crissacrita.com/events and get on the wait list for 2020 event right now. Again,
 that's crissacrita.com/events. Thank you for joining me today. I hope it served you well. I encourage you to
 subscribe, rate, review and share the podcast to help more people join our community and as always.
 Take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.