 Today we're talking about the enemy of vulnerability and progress.
 It keeps us from perspective and growth.
 More on that coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCordo Show, where we discuss leadership and life.
 And discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 Today we're talking about Mark.
 Mark was in a meeting and his boss was asking him questions about a mistake that was made on his project.
 His boss was relentless and he kept asking questions that highlighted what went wrong.
 I felt like someone was accusing him that the spotlight was glaring down on him.
 The feeling of needing to defend and justify what he had said and done was creeping up inside.
 He felt wronged.
 Mark felt his heart rate elevate and he started to feel the need to protect himself.
 What was his boss really trying to say?
 He's putting this all on me, Mark thought to himself.
 He left the meeting discouraged and angry.
 And the next meeting, he also did not answer the questions clearly, take responsibility,
 or come up with a solution to fix what went wrong instead of walking away with a solution.
 He walked away feeling attacked and upset.
 Does any of this sound familiar?
 Now in that story, Mark fell into the trap of self protection,
 which is something that we can easily fall into.
 Now it's not just at work, this happens all the time in our relationships.
 Think about this.
 The last time your spouse or a close friend gave you feedback or pointed out something you struggle with,
 was your first response to be defensive or shut down.
 When you're leader at work asks a question, how quickly and clearly do you answer?
 Is it a roundabout explanation or is it a direct clear answer?
 Do you share 100% of your view or feedback when asked?
 Or is there 10% that you hold back out of fear or uncertainty of the other person's response?
 How often do you find yourself mad at or offended by the other person instead of trying to discover
 your responsibility in the situation?
 How often are you concerned about not wanting to look stupid?
 Now does any of that on the list resonate with you?
 Those are behaviors that are intended to protect us.
 What we don't realize is how much all of that holds us back.
 How much all of that is keeping us from growth.
 How much all of that is keeping us stuck exactly where we are.
 Thinking that we are protecting ourselves from pain or hurt.
 And instead keeping ourselves stuck exactly where we are.
 So we're going to get more into that after these messages right here.
 Next level of life is our two-day personal discovery experience.
 It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover
 your root system to get unstuck in life and discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace.
 Imagine this. What if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose?
 What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict?
 Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years?
 If you had clarity, purpose, and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today.
 Now I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself,
 is there more?
 There is. And there is a better way. And it starts with the next level of life.
 You can go to Chrissacorda.com/discover to take the next step.
 Now if you're struggling with this contentment, regret, or not feeling good enough,
 which most of you are, if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking,
 don't keep going through the same motions every single day. Learn how to move past
 the things robbing you of peace. Go to Chrissacorda.com/discover and take the next step.
 So folks, here's what happens once self-protection. Why do we do it?
 We convince ourselves that if we protect us, if we keep us from looking stupid,
 if we keep ourselves from failing, if we keep ourselves from looking less than somebody else,
 if we protect ourselves, then we're going to keep ourselves from hurting.
 The crazy thing is, part of that can be correct. Part of that can be right.
 But a lot of it is coming from our imagination. A lot of it is not thinking through with reason,
 instead it's thinking through with imagination. And the problem with that is,
 is that we create all of these thoughts in our brains that if this happens, or if I say that
 thing over there, or if I don't protect myself here, then the old, if then, right, then I'm going to
 get hurt. I'm going to look stupid. I'm going to whatever. Any time you spend trying to get people around
 you to think that you're amazing, or just straight up self-protecting, is a colossal waste of time.
 Not only is it a waste of time, but you are absolutely wasting your energy. One of the things we
 talk about the next level of life is with a lot of people, because a lot of people are self-protecting.
 We all do it to some level. When you stop and take a look at how much you're self-protecting,
 when you stop and take a look at the things you're trying to self-protect from,
 when you are protecting from a leader trying to give you input.
 One of the things I do for a living is give people input. It's what I do for a living.
 How did I get to this place? All of my failures. All the stuff that I've messed up. All the things
 that I've learned and grown from and learned how to overcome, which is why I'm telling you this right now,
 about self-protection, right? But there are so many times that people turn to me and it's like,
 "Chris, could you help me give me advice on this? I give advice. I point in a different direction
 and it is just not received." Because to receive would mean that that person has to become vulnerable.
 To receive might mean that that person has to look at themselves. To receive might mean that they're the problem,
 that they're the fault. And so what tends to happen in those situations now,
 the great thing is I have phenomenal clients. I have phenomenal people that follow us
 that are incredible implementers. It's the greatest thing for a coach, right,
 is having somebody who implements the things that you teach. But every now and then there's going to be
 that person who just absolutely struggles to get that information. Now here's what I want you to see.
 This is so important for you to realize this. The amount of time spent self-protecting
 in those situations, what are they protecting from? A new way of having to do something.
 A having to look at themselves. We take a look at the rich young ruler and that comes to Jesus
 and says, "Hey, what do I need to do to get into heaven?" And the crazy thing is, in a western
 culture, we don't necessarily understand what happens in that story. So for those of you that may not
 know this, there's a rich young ruler that comes to Jesus and says, "Hey, these are the things that I've
 done. This is the stuff that I've got. Yariya, yara, yara, yara, what do I need to do?" And Jesus tells him.
 Jesus sees his heart. He looks into his heart and he sees that the stuff that he owns
 owns him. And so for him, he says, "Sell all your stuff, give it to the poor and come follow me."
 And the rich young ruler walked away upset. Now, we have a tendency to stop right there and go, "Oh,
 rich being a rich person is bad." Having lots of money or stuff is bad. That is not at all,
 not at all. What that says. Not at all what that's talking about. What it is talking about is when your
 stuff owns you, it is tougher for you to focus on the things that are most beneficial for you.
 So for him, he's wanting heaven, but he sure doesn't want to get rid of his stuff here on earth.
 Heaven is eternity. Life here is sub 80 years, you know, for a lot of us, right? And for him,
 what was his concern? You're asking me to go get rid of the things that give me worth.
 You're asking me to take those things that I've value so greatly.
 Sell them, get rid of it, take the money, turn it over to people that are really in need and come follow you.
 What a struggle in that moment. Here's what we need to understand. In a Western culture,
 there's a piece that we don't understand. The break culture understands that he came to
 Jesus and called him rabbi. Which means he came to him and believed that this is somebody he considers
 as his rabbi. In first century, Jerusalem, first century Israel, when you approached your rabbi
 and asked for information, asked for direction, you were bound to what he said. We also missed
 understand binding and losing. The rabbi is of the ones that did the binding and losing.
 And so if a rabbi bounds you to his words, you're supposed to do it. We always look at that
 scripture and say, he walked away because he wasn't going to deal with that answer. He didn't want to
 do that. He went back and lived his lifestyle. There is a really good chance he actually went and did.
 What Jesus told me to do and that is why he walked away upset. That is why he struggled.
 What was he trying to protect himself from? What was he trying to keep himself safe about? What was he
 trying to keep himself from getting hurt about? The big answer? His worth. Where he got his worth from?
 Folks, if you're getting your worth by not sounding stupid, that means that the fear is that somebody
 else is going to judge you on sounding stupid. Think about it this way. If somebody does judge you
 on sounding stupid, what does it say about the person who's judging? How healthy are they being in the moment?
 If you're protecting yourself from somebody hurting you, that means that if the person that you're
 protecting yourself from is going to hurt you, what does that say about them? How unhealthy is that
 person? What I'm talking about right now is your worth, you protecting your worth by self-protecting
 and keeping yourself from sounding stupid, looking stupid, looking like you don't know what you're talking
 about. Having to be right, oh my gosh, some of the biggest self-protectors on the planet are the ones
 that have to be right and can't be wrong. If you have to be right, then you're not hearing what the
 other person is saying. Proverbs talks about an intelligent person. This isn't me, this is God.
 An intelligent person is ready for knowledge, is ready to receive knowledge. Their ears are open
 and waiting. An intelligent person. What does that say about all of us that are self-protecting
 and choosing not to receive? Choosing not to hear, choosing not to accept constructive criticism? What does
 that say about us? What that saying is we're killing our own growth. It's backfiring on us. This
 concept of self-protecting is actually backfiring us because we're not solving the problem. If you're
 concerned about being worthy for people and you hide your mistakes or don't want to admit your
 failures and take responsibility, then you don't solve problems and grow. Here's what I want you to see.
 If you are self-protecting from unhealthy people or you're being unhealthy because of unhealthy
 judgments or whatever, how's that affecting you? How's that working for you? Is it actually growing you
 or is it holding you back? Every time you take a step forward, you end up taking a step or two back,
 because you're keeping yourself protected, which is keeping you from being able to even receive constructive
 constructive criticism. Here's what you have to understand. Failure is inevitable. It's going to
 happen. There's no way it's not going to happen. Failure's coming. Failure's going to happen.
 How are you going to deal with it? Now there are thought leaders out there who claim that failure is not an option.
 It for me that speaks to immaturity. What that means is in the concept is, oh we can't fail. We're
 just going to keep going with you. Listen, failure is the greatest teacher to the person who's able to
 receive it. Failure grows me. Failure and growth from failure is why I do what I do for a living.
 Failure is inevitable. Are you going to self-protect yourself from it? Are you going to
 protect yourself from the growth, the solutions, the opportunities? If you are, is there any possible
 way you can grow from that? You cannot. Instead, what's going to happen? You're going to keep yourself
 protected thinking that you did a great job of protecting you and you're going to keep yourself
 in the same exact position you were in when the failure happened. Again, it backfires. Your worth
 does not come from what other people think of you. Until you understand that, until you get that,
 for those of you that are believers, your worth does not come from what other people think of you.
 It only comes from one very important being. It comes from the fact that you're made in his image.
 It comes from the fact that he had the flesh ripped off his body so that you could have eternity with him.
 It comes from the fact that he is so crazy and love with you that he has done so many things to draw you
 toward him. It does not come from what a created being somebody that God created thinks of you.
 It comes from what the Creator thinks of you. For those of you that are not believers,
 here's the struggle. You have to find worth in something that is consistent 100% of them. You have to
 find worth in something that is actually true to what worth is. True to what value is.
 So here's the thing I want you guys to understand whether you're a believer or not. Your worth
 is not in what man thinks of you. Now, as a business, your worth to my business is what you can produce.
 But your worth to me is a leader as a person as an individual. That's not it. What I see is the cross
 and what that meant for you. Now, weekly action steps. These are things that you can do right now.
 These are things that you can do today to help you combat self protection. The first thing you
 gotta do is you have to recognize, "Ooh, I just can't stress this enough. I cannot say this enough.
 You have to recognize if you're feeling defensive, if you're feeling insecure, if you're
 fearing failure, you've got to recognize it in the moment." There are so many times. It's not a lot
 nowadays. I have a phenomenal group of people who choose to follow us and do what we do. Next,
 I'll master my next level of life strap plan that are always part of the process that are really
 coming to go. Chris, I know I need change. From time to time, I will still have folks that want input,
 but cannot receive it. They will fight it. They will fight it. They will fight it. We call it fighting
 in a wet paper bag. I will have folks that are like, "Chris, leave me on this thing. Give me
 instruction on this. I give instruction." And they're like, "Yeah, no, I already know that."
 Yeah, no, I already do that. I will have folks that instead of receiving the constructive criticism,
 the guidance, the direction, whatever it is, that they get in this place of insecurity,
 and their fear is that they're not going to be good enough. Their fear is that they're not going to be
 right. Their fear is that they're going to be wrong. You have to recognize in the moment
 what you're feeling. If you feel the need to defend immediately ask the question, "Why?
 Why do I feel like I have to defend this right now? What's going on inside of me that I
 feel too defend? Do I have to defend? Is somebody attacking me? Is somebody ripping me apart?
 Is somebody calling me names telling me I'm horrible? Is there any real reason that I need too
 defend in the moment? If the answer is no, then you're struggling with self protection. If the answer is yes,
 somebody is now ripping my head off, you know, and being a total jerk, will great. There's,
 there's a reason to be defensive. But if it's not that moment and most 95% of the time, it's probably
 not that moment, right? Recognize it. If you're feeling insecure, recognize it. If you're
 fearing that you're going to fail in this moment and the other person's going to judge you,
 recognize that what your real true focus on is the other person's judgment. If that is it,
 then you have to ask yourself a question. How healthy are you being in the moment?
 Worring about the health of another person. Do you see how that backfires on you? See how that
 doesn't work? You're going to have to focus and recognize what am I feeling? Ask the question, why?
 Why am I struggling with this? What am I experiencing? If you're having a personal struggle,
 ask yourself why am I looking for someone's approval? Am I fearing rejection or disappointing
 somebody? That is something that a lot of folks struggle with when it comes to authority.
 I don't want to disappoint this person. I'm struggling in this moment that I may come across as disappointed
 or I may disappoint them. Therefore, if I do, what happens to my worth?
 Folks, let me ask you a question. Have you challenged the character of the person you're worried about?
 I will say this all the time to people when I see that they're holding back when they're struggling.
 When they're fearing failure, they're fearing disappointing me. I will ask the question,
 hey, what's my character? How am I going to respond in this situation? What do you know about me?
 And every time they'll go, you're not going to judge. Okay, what am I going to do? You're going to
 help me to solve this or you're going to talk through this with me? Okay, and then what?
 Well, that's usually pretty much it. Okay, what are you afraid of? I did not realize
 how fearful I was of something that doesn't exist. So challenge the character of the person that
 yourself protecting from? Oh my gosh, how many times do you self-protect? Thinking bad things
 about the person yourself protecting from and if you stopped for two seconds and said, what is
 this person's character? You would answer whether or not you need to self-protect in that moment.
 Third thing is, know the lies and the truths. Big part of what we do in next-level life.
 Big part of what we do in just conversation of helping people. You have to notice what is the lie
 that you're telling yourself. What are the things that you're telling you? What are the lies that you're
 telling you? If there are lies, then you've got to battle them with the truths. Now, the truths are
 rarely ever the opposite of the lie. I'm not good enough. The truth isn't I am good enough. You have to
 notice the lie of what you're saying and then you have to figure out why are you telling yourself that?
 Why do I tell myself that I'm not good enough? Well, because I'm afraid that I'm going to disappoint
 this leader over here. Okay, so really it's not about you not being good enough. It's your
 afraid that that person's going to think that you're not good enough. Yeah, Joe over there's not going to
 look at me that way. Okay, well let's say that we're not going to lose or gain worth by Joe's opinion.
 Now keep in mind if it's a leader, then there should be a level of respect for the role, but you don't
 need to lose your worth to that person. So let's say we're not going to focus on losing worth and we're
 going to ask the question, should I be protecting from losing worth from Joe? No, why not? My worth
 does not come from Joe's opinion of me. Right? Now it does in the area of me doing a job for Joe because
 he's in my leader or she is my leader. But the question is does my overall worth come from Joe? The answer is no,
 where does my worth come for those of us that are believers? It comes from the everlasting love of God.
 It comes from the fact that we're made in his image. So the truth actually becomes something different.
 If the lie is I'm not good enough once we dig down to the why of the lie, then we can actually
 fill in the truth that battles that lie. God believes I'm good enough. How do I know this? The
 cross proves it. I am good enough. The cross says I'm good enough. God's word. How it shows me. He loves me.
 Says I'm good enough. And now you can battle that lie with the truth. Caviaz. Caviaz here.
 If I had to help many folks through next level of life to understand this piece, if you're not actually
 battling you're not in the fight. Okay. So what does that look like? There have been times. I've
 had somebody. It could be a team member or client that is like Chris, I need your help. I'm struggling right now.
 I'm battling. What are you battling? I'm battling the lies. What are you saying? I'm battling right now.
 Okay, I don't say in other words except to tell me exactly what you're saying to the lies. And then they go,
 "Oh my gosh, I'm not actually saying anything." Which my response is, you're not battling
 you're getting pummeled. You've got to battle the lie with the truth. So first off, and I'll tell you
 something that I do. This is a little tool for me. I know when I get into negative self-talk.
 I know when I get into lies or believing the lies that I have to stop the process really super fly fast.
 So for me, I will go knock it off. I'll say that inside my brain. Knock it off. Stop it. Stop right now.
 And what that does is it forces my brain to stop the negative self-talk. That's not enough.
 A lot of people stop here. Then I will fill in truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth truth
 until I get that lie to go away. So if you're not battling you're actually not in the fight you're just getting pummeled.
 Last thing, ask a freaking question. Ask a freaking question. Stop and say, "Hey,
 I'm struggling with something in my brain or just ask help me with some perspective. Help me to understand.
 This is my perspective on this. Why are we doing this?" Ask questions.
 If you were in a moment of feeling you have to self-protect. So let's say somebody's coming to you and
 they're putting a little bit of pressure on you or they're putting a decent amount of pressure on you and they should be maybe in the situation.
 It all depends on what's going on. Ask a question.
 Hey, help me to understand. Did I do something wrong here? Is there something you're seeing? Is there something you can help me to grow with?
 Ask a question. Help me with some perspective on this.
 Because what tends to happen is we use that back door of imagination instead of the front door of
 reason and we create 7,000 different reasons and assumptions around the situation that's happening.
 We never gain any perspective on it and that's when we go straight into self-protection. What would happen?
 What would happen if today? You started gaining more perspective in the situations
 or you fear failure or you feel insecure or you feel the need to defend. What would happen if you
 started gaining perspective in those situations today? I can tell you is you would probably
 shed a whole lot of light on all the assumptions that are in your brain and you would not
 feel the need to self-protect. So folks, there you have it. Self-protection is the enemy
 of vulnerability and progress. It keeps us from perspective and growth. Take these weekly action steps
 and start shutting down self-protection so you can get quality perspective and growth.
 Hopefully that has helped you today. Thank you for joining me. I hope it has served you well.
 I encourage you to subscribe, rate, review and share the podcast to help more people join our community.
 As always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]