 the most frustrating situation as a leader and how to solve it.
 More on that coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardos Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. Today we are talking about the most frustrating
 leadership situation. Is it revenue? No, it's not revenue. Is it client struggles?
 Nope, not client struggles. What is it? Heather Ann. What is it?
 It's uncultiable team members, Chris. Hey, it is uncultiable team members. That's the most
 frustrating thing as a leader and welcome to the show somebody who's very
 coachable. I've been coaching you for 10 years, so you're very coachable.
 You have a lot of the same stuff, but you know, you're very
 I'm slow to catch on, but at least I'm coachable, right? You're consistent.
 It's a start. It's a start. It's a start. So we are talking today about uncultiable team
 members and how do we solve that and why do they do it? And you know, in so many,
 so many reasons why there's a lot of stuff that leaders get frustrated with when it comes to a
 team member and not being able to coach them on something. So today Heather's going to be
 picking my brain on this, but something I want you guys to realize before we even get into this is many
 times we think that the person is just uncultiable, many times that's accurate, but many times
 it's that they are self-protecting themselves. You know, they don't want to look stupid. They don't
 want to sound stupid. They don't want to be wrong. They're struggling to be right. So things that
 we need to think about as we go through this process, our goal is not for you to go. Yep,
 I've got that, you know, jerk on my team or I've got that idiot on my team. That is not what we're
 doing here. Our goal is to gain perspective to learn how we can lead people. So there are five steps
 that you can take to successfully lead an uncultiable team member. And we're going to have a
 PDF at the end free to take away from this episode so you can see the steps and lead your leaders
 to the same thing. So if you are a leader and you have other leaders around you, then don't just
 use this for you share this with those leaders that you have so that you can guide people, help them to
 become more coachable. So again, I'm bringing on one of my leaders in our business to give real life
 examples and see what this looks like and so Heather, welcome to the show. Thank you. I'm actually
 really excited to chat with you about this. It has been part of my root system. I've had to grow in
 that area. The thing is is like you just pointed out that you have been uncouchable. We've all been uncouchable.
 I don't know a single person that was just like always 100% just coachable. Yep. Okay. Good.
 Teach me that. Let me let you know that never struggles with anything. So we are going to talk about
 that. But before we dive in, I want to talk to you about something that will transform your leadership
 and life. Doesn't matter if you're a CEO, stay at home parent or a business owner. Next level of life
 is our two-day personal discovery experience. It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you
 through a process to help you discover your root system, to get unstuck in life and to discover what's
 holding you back from freedom and peace. Imagine this. What if you could wake up every morning
 with a clear purpose? What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict?
 Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years? If you had clarity, purpose, and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today. Now I know it's possible because I've been where
 you are asking myself, is there more? There is. And there is a better way. And it starts with
 the next level of life. You can go to crissacrita.com/discover to take the next step. Now if you're struggling
 with this contentment, regret or not feeling good enough, which most of you are, if you're filled with
 anxiety or your relationships are lacking, don't keep going through the same motions every single day.
 Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace. Go to crissacrita.com/discover and take the next step.
 All right, we are back and we are talking about uncouchable team members. So Heather is joining
 me here in the studio. What are the questions you have on such a subject? I have a list of questions.
 I know you do. You know what? Let's just start at the beginning. I mentioned earlier having
 conversations with an uncouchable team member. What's the first step in starting that type of
 conversation? You've seen me do this with you. You've seen me do this with other team members. You've
 done this with other team members. The first thing that you have to do is you have to remember. You're
 always going to hear me say, "Liter, start with you." If somebody is being uncouchable, you've got to
 ask yourself the question, "What's my part in this?" You know, "Am I doing something wrong? Am I not
 sharing information? Am I not giving enough information to set them up for success?" So as I look at
 somebody, we are raised in a culture that says if you disagree with somebody they're wrong. If you see
 somebody struggling with something they're wrong. So for me, the place that I always start is I start
 looking at me. Is it my fault? Am I doing something wrong? Am I not giving you the right information?
 If I have gone through my potential problems in the situation, my potential struggles and it's not me,
 then I have to start at that point by having an understanding for who I'm talking to. Now, one of our
 core values here is that everybody has a root system on or that. But what that means is start by
 recognizing that somebody is probably struggling with something that's coming from the root system.
 You mentioned that at the top of the show. For me, I try as hard as I can. I have had team members
 just mess up and not say anything. I have team members that have lost their mind because of screw ups.
 And the incredible thing is is that if I respond to what I'm seeing, hearing, experiencing,
 then I'm going to become incredibly selfish. I'm going to take a look at that person and I'm going
 to be like, "I don't like your action, I don't like your response, I don't like, you know, whatever's going on."
 For me, I start by saying, "What could this person be experiencing? What do I think they're experiencing?
 What do I think they're going through? What do I think they're struggling with?" And then I'll ask
 the question, "Hey, what are you struggling with? What are you feeling right now? What are you experiencing
 right now?" And what I find is in those moments, people want to be honest because I'm not attacking.
 I'm not setting their reality. I'm not telling them what's wrong with them. I'm saying, "Hey, what are you
 experiencing?" And then I mean, you've experienced that. I've done that with you a bajillion times, right?
 Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right.
 What do you think through when you're struggling with something and that's the direction I go? Yeah, I think
 it just opens the door for a completely different conversation because I'm not guarded because I know you're
 not attacking me versus if you became defensive or if you had an attitude or if you approached it in a
 different light than I would struggle. So for me, I want to see what you're experiencing. What I may find out
 and this has happened before, I've found out that somebody might be really freaking out because they
 feel like they're letting me down. There have been times, you know, I've discovered somebody's going through
 a divorce and nobody knows about it. Maybe something really bad has happened in their life or maybe
 they're just failing. They've had another failure on something or they've had a run of failures and
 they feel like they are a failure, not just that they're making mistakes. So the first thing I want to
 do is I want to find out where are they? Where are you? What are you experiencing? What are you feeling?
 The next thing I want to do is I want to help them to see if I can get past that information.
 If it's a root system issue, if it is something that is, you know, maybe they're struggling with
 worth, which is usually the problem, then I'm going to actually speak some truth into that situation.
 I want to help them to see, hey, are you a failure? Well, I sure feel like I am.
 Okay, so you are failing with the situation, you know, if they really are, but does that make you a failure?
 No, okay. Well, how do we solve stuff around here? And then usually I'll go through the five steps.
 What happened? How did it happen? Why did it happen? How do we fix it? How do we make sure never
 happens again? So I'll go through those pieces. The next thing I want to do is I want to help them see
 their responsibility. Now, this tends to be the place that 99.9% of leaders go to first. It's your fault.
 You screwed this up. You did something wrong. How well does that work? I mean, if you think about it,
 all you're doing is setting somebody's reality and putting them on the defense and putting them on the
 defense because it's on top of the thing that they're experiencing, which may be hurt, pain, whatever.
 So for me, what I will do is, is after I've gone through that route, I will go to the, hey, let's take a look at
 what happened. What did happen? And help them to see if it's their fault, if it's their responsibility,
 then I help them to take responsibility, but I don't stop there, right? Instead, I help them to take
 ownership of what's going on. So what I want them to see is the difference between an owner
 versus like a renter mentality, right? The owner says, what else can I do? The renter says, I'm done.
 I'm done with this. I'm done for the day. I love that language owner versus renter.
 What's another example of an owner versus renter mentality? So take leading somebody,
 like a renter would be somebody who would say, you know, it's like delegation. We talk about
 proper delegation around here. We talk about it all the time in killing the leadership crisis cycle that
 somebody delegating most of the time leaders, business owners, doesn't matter who it is, even team
 members, when delegating a project or a process or something, they give something to somebody and then they
 go, is it done yet? Did you get that done yet? Was it where I'm on that thing? It's not done yet?
 Oh, you're not doing it the same way I am. Or I would. So here, let me just take that back. So the renters,
 the kind of person who says, why aren't you getting this done? Why isn't this happening? Why aren't
 you doing this at the same way that I would do it? Why aren't you doing it at the same pace? Why aren't you,
 you know, whatever? An owner looks at the situation and says, how do I set this person up for success?
 How do I make this person successful? So if I'm going to delegate something and if I'm going to
 give them a job, if I'm going to hire them for a job, if I'm bringing somebody in brand-spank
 a new, how do I make sure that I set this person up for success? This really is something that a lot
 of leaders never even think about in the hiring process because what they're doing is, well, I'm
 hiring you for this role. You should already know it. You should already be good at this. You know,
 you told me in the interview process that you were the expert. Never think to themselves,
 you know, it would actually be really smart if I stopped and made sure this person is successful.
 That's the owner mentality. The renters, the one that's going to go, "Did you do it?"
 The owner's going to be, "Okay, how do I make sure not only do you do it, but that you're successful
 at doing it?" So we've established ownership, which is great. I keep thinking of my kids as
 we're talking about this because it spills right over in the hiring team. But what if they still don't
 care? What if you guide them through that process and you get them, you lead the horse to water
 and they still aren't believing they need to change that behavior? So okay, now caveat. And you know this
 because this is what I teach here. This is what we do. If you've gone through the other pieces,
 if you've made sure it's not your fault. If you've made sure there's not something they're dealing with
 personally and sometimes people will share and sometimes they just won't, right? So you may not
 absolutely get to that truth there. If you've gone through all the other stuff, if you've helped them
 to see that it's their responsibility, that they should take ownership and they still don't care,
 or they believe that they don't need to change behavior? Fire them. Did that fire them right on
 this spot? Get out of your alms! Don't let the door hit you where the good Lord's pledge is. See you!
 Actually we had there. I want a new child. What do you want? I've got.
 So here's the way we would take a look at it. I'm going to help them to see the benefits of if they do change.
 I'm still going to take that extra approach to say, "Let me help you to see what winning looks like."
 Because it's very possible. They're not seeing that. It's very possible that they're thinking,
 "This is a no win for me. I will help them to see what winning looks like." So hey listen,
 if you do do this, if you do change behavior, if you do change this thing, this is what it looks like.
 So let's say it's a salesperson. A lot of times salespeople who are good at sales,
 sometimes they don't understand that there's more to making them successful than just selling.
 So many times you can help a salesperson to understand that if they do this thing, like maybe they
 work really well with somebody in admin or they don't battle with customer service. Whoever it is,
 that the win is bigger than them just getting a commission. So a lot of times they look at this
 and go, "I'm really concerned about the sale." I want to take care of the customer on the sales side,
 but then they don't realize that they're not setting up the administrative team with enough details,
 enough information to actually make the sale successful. They get a sale done and they're like, "Okay,
 guys, now go deliver the thing I just sold, but they don't, the team doesn't get to deliver it."
 So instead and then they just turn on the team and go, "Well, you guys are sucking at your job."
 So sometimes that's an example of helping a team member to see, "Listen, go the extra mile.
 Don't just do your part. We have an expectation of a result. How do we make sure we get to that
 result? Help people out. Walk this path. Show, you know, get in there and help other team members to be successful
 on your sale." And I'm only picking out a salesperson because that's usually an easy one. We usually say,
 we usually see in many businesses that struggle between sales and admin customers,
 service, whatever it is, or tends to be some tension there. So at this point, I get that we need to get
 them to take ownership and get them to see the benefits of resolving the problem. But in the past, I've
 experienced with a team member at a previous job. You know, they'll get in that conversation
 and they'll take responsibility. And yes, oh, I understand that, but then they continue to do the
 same thing over and over again. So what do you do when you get in that situation, especially for a
 high-ass who doesn't like conflict or tries to avoid it? How do you get them to actually change or see
 the need for growth? Right. So first thing, like you just mentioned that you're high-ass,
 for the personality styles that don't like conflict, I can tell you it is a difficult thing because a
 lot of times you may not be leading the process tough enough, right? So that they understand what's
 actually going on. So for example, I knew a high-high leader that would have tough conversations with a
 team member and by the time the team member walked out they're like, "Ooh, I think that went really well
 in the team member walking out, it's going, I have no clue what that was about." Right? So you have to
 understand that it's not about your personality style. It's not about you as a leader. Even though it's
 conflict, it can't be about you hating conflict. It has to be about how do I get this team member
 to grow. It's about making the team member successful. Right? So even if it's difficult for you,
 that's something you have to be prepared for before you ever go into this meeting. So I always
 tell like a high-ess or a high-c if you're going into one of these tough conversations, you got to get
 you mentally prepared right down the things, you know, the reminders that you have to think about
 before you go into this. So with like a situation you're talking about, at this point they understand
 the the results or the need to fix this thing so that they can want to miss area. They just keep choosing
 not to. They keep choosing not to take ownership on it. This is where you start to explain their behavior.
 So I will actually start to point it and I do not go to this very first thing because it just makes it
 really difficult and it's not necessary because give the person a chance to fix things. Right?
 So for me, at this point if I have done all the stuff that we've talked about before and they're still choosing
 not to fix the problem or take ownership that I'm going to start talking about specifically what I'm
 experiencing. Hey Heather, I'm experiencing you as being uncoachable. We've had this discussion
 five times already. You've explained to me every single time that you understand the need. You
 understand the importance. You can see that this has to happen for us to win. You know, I'll go through
 all those pieces that I've explained to that person and yet I'm still seeing the same thing. So here's
 what I want to ask you. Put yourself in my shoes. How would you deal with you if you were me? How would
 you deal with somebody who was choosing this if you were the leader? What would you do with that person?
 And the reason why I go it and again keep a mind this is after all the other stuff. Hopefully the
 other stuff fix the problem. We're getting to the point now where it's it's not working. So for me,
 I'm going to ask them to think about what it's like to be the leader in this role and look back at you as
 the person. You know, this team member doing the same exact thing. How would you feel? What would you do about it?
 The great thing is many times this will solve the problem. They will actually be able to look
 at, you know, it's like what we do in next-level life when we're trying to help somebody to see something
 about their root system or our surface level response that they're doing and they're getting it. They're
 getting it, but they're not really getting it. It's like, why are you doing this? Why are you choosing
 do this? And then I'll say, okay, if you're nine-year-old daughter did this, would you be okay with that?
 Oh my gosh, no. All right. Then Huck, it's okay for you. Boom. I mean, it is just a powerful hit.
 It helps them to see shoot. I would not let my daughter treat herself that way, but I keep treating
 myself this way. It's the same kind of concept. If I, if I as a team member were leading me as a team
 member, what would I do about the situation? All of a sudden, they get that different perspective. They
 get that leadership perspective. And this can be, it can be the thing that causes them to right side.
 Okay, I've got to, I see it. I got it. I'm going to jump in. What I've noticed in the past is more than not,
 probably good 75% of the time that I've had to do this. Maybe maybe 80% it's in that area.
 The team member, if they're a champion, this is the thing that causes them to right side in start
 rock and on. But they're still, they're still probably that 20% of the time that somebody is just,
 they still don't get it. And they struggle. So if you do that, hopefully that's the thing that
 kicks that into gear. This is an area that I struggle because this is like the tough love
 part of the conversation. How, how do you make that come across well without demotivating the team
 member? Well, that's a tough part because keep it mind. I'm saying this comes way late because you
 should have done all the things that should have fixed it. So if we're at this point and they're
 still not solving the problem, this is going to be a demotivating discussion, right? But don't go
 out it with an attack. Hey, listen, man, you're just being stupid here. I just can't believe you just
 can't get this. And we've had this conversation five times, right? Now keep in mind, you should be doing
 the things to set them up for success that they ultimately can't get there. Then we're going to have
 to make a decision as a leader, right? So for now here at this point, we're moving in that direction
 of, there's a possible right upcoming. There's probably a right upcoming very soon. There's probably
 something coming because they've been negative to this point. So the key though is that you're not trying
 to drive demotivation. You have to understand that it can be something that will be demotivating.
 You know, it can be something that will be demoralizing. So if you will show up and be vulnerable in the
 moment and do it from that heart of just, hey, I don't, here's what I'm struggling with.
 I still need to coach you on this. I still need to mentor you on this. And I'm just not getting the
 response. And I'm struggling because what I don't want to do is I don't want to go into this
 really negative space of having to write you up or give you a heavy consequence, but you're really
 not leaving me many options here. And so really, I want you to kind of understand where I'm coming from.
 Now, if you can't be genuine, then you can't do that. If you can't be honest, then you cannot go that
 route because what will happen is is that you'll just look like a jerk who doesn't care, right? They'll
 see right through that. So be honest about it. If this is where you are, hopefully this is where your heart
 is as well. Like it should be here. So let them know that you don't expect them to have every answer
 to everything that you're asking them. But make sure that you just kind of hang out in that area and
 just help them to see, do you see my struggle? Do you see where I'm coming from? Do you see the thing that
 I still have to lead this, right? So many times I will talk to, if I have a team member, cash is
 spent so long since I've actually had a team member in this situation. Let me think about that for a second.
 Yeah, that's true. Yeah, many times I had to get my thoughts together there.
 Many times what I'll do is I'll say, hey, do you see how this is affecting this? Do you see how this
 is affecting this team, this situation, this, whatever it is? Understand, I still am responsible for all of that.
 I'm still responsible to make that happen. Wow, cash memories are coming back from way back when
 when I've had situations like this where I've actually had to help somebody to see your role is not
 the only important role in the whole business, right? And help them to see that I'm not choosing to be a
 jerk because I'm calling them out on something they're not doing. I'm having to be responsible for a business.
 There are clients that expect things for me. There are other people, team members that expect things for me.
 So the goal is be vulnerable, help them to see that you do care, but this is not a bad time to help them to
 see that you also care about the success of the business as well. So just know that it's probably going to
 be demotivating at this point, but your hope is that by doing it this way, hopefully they will shift their
 mind and their mindset and go, you know what, stopping a dork, do the thing you're supposed to do,
 do the thing that you're responsible for. I think that's key. I think the vulnerability, like you said,
 sets this space, sets the stage for that tough conversation to happen without you being the bad person.
 Or, well, and so something that I didn't share and that is how do we normally respond?
 So let's take you as a high S, right? How would you normally respond if you had to have that
 conversation? I'm a horrible person. I'm going to lose to this person's friendship. All these bad
 things are going to happen. And how much do you have to build yourself up to have that tough conversation?
 And so there's a funny thing where people, you know, we obviously we talk in personality styles a lot here,
 where people will look at a high S, and go, man, they've got all high D on that. No, they didn't.
 They had to work themselves up past the conflict to have the conflict, which causes them to come
 across as like they're being total jerks, right? So you've had moments in your past, I'm sure,
 where you've had to have a tough conversation that you weren't mentally prepared for,
 and you have to, you feel like you've got to be the hard person, the harsh person in the process. Is that correct?
 Yeah, and I think one of the things that you had taught me was, if I look at it from a mindset of,
 I'm not hurting this person, I'm trying to help them grow. It's like parenting. You know, you have those
 tough love moments, and you're having that tough conversation with your child, but you know
 that it's the best thing for them, even though it hurts, even though it's uncomfortable, they don't see it
 that way, but you know. So you know, when I'm going into the conversation now, I'm getting my mind in
 that space of, I'm not trying to hurt this person, I really want them to grow, and I want to help them,
 and this is necessary to help them grow. Right. And I do think there's a caveat here, or,
 you know, something that we need to point out is, if you just have somebody who's being stubborn and is not
 receiving responsibility is not trying at all is not, you know, recognizing their need for ownership,
 then you've probably by this point already moved on to write-ups and moving towards firing this person.
 So what we're talking about here is that person that you're working with and they're trying, or they're
 at least they're seeing it, and this is somebody you want to keep around. If they get this, man, they just
 become a phenomenal team member, or they become an even more phenomenal team member. So you know,
 like I say, if we're talking about somebody that you've told this to and they're like,
 hey, forget you dude, I'm paying me around my own. It's like, well, you're out, right? So we're talking
 in this situation, or really discussing somebody that we want to keep around, somebody we want to have
 because we know that they can be phenomenal. So. Good stuff. So is there anything else that we can do to
 help them? Is there anything that you haven't hit on or anything that you can think of? Yeah.
 I'm always going to be somebody who, if there's an area, let's say, so if they're a leader,
 if they're a team member, and it's just normal business, cultural stuff, or stuff that I teach
 on all the time, then I'm going to be the one who's coaching them and leading them. But what if it's
 something that I can't lead them on? You know, maybe the thing that I'm needing from them is something
 that's beyond my expertise. So, again, if it's leadership, I'm going to be teaching the leadership side.
 But what if it's web development? What if I can't get you? I am the last person who's going to teach
 anybody web development, right? Because I just don't even, I'm not there. If you can't copy and
 paste, then that's the limitations of my coding abilities. So what if the area is in an area where I can
 get them, some coaching or mentoring? I'm going to approach the person and say, hey, listen,
 you know, now that we've gone here and you see this and you know, we've gotten all the way through all
 of these steps and they're like, yes, I want to change, I want to change, great. How about we get
 you some coaching or mentoring in this area? Whatever the thing is. So, again, that made
 me be you, but it may be bringing you an outside help. I'm a huge advocate of coaching. I'm obviously,
 I'll coach, right? We pay for tons of coaching in this business to make people better, stronger.
 More excellent at what they're doing. This would be one of those situations where it's not just a
 coach to make them better what they're doing. It's a coach to help them to see something that you
 might not be able to help them to see. So that's definitely a possibility. Where could you get some mentoring?
 Even if it's just down to the, you know, maybe it's a key leader. Maybe it's somebody who's been with you for
 10 years. Maybe it's somebody who is just, you know, you love them to death or phenomenal. They're just
 struggling with something. Maybe it's counseling. You know, who knows? We have a ton, a ton of clients
 who will send their team members through next level. And one they come back. They're like,
 you know, and they don't get to know anything about the next level. I just completely confidential.
 But what they get back is this amazing team member. You know, this thing that they were stuck on or this thing
 that they were dealing with. Now they're killing it. You know, we have so many of the clients that will send their
 whole leadership team through. And it's powerful how much it impacts the business. So it could be that they're dealing with
 something personally that you just can't help with that you need to get them to somebody professionally. So the last thing I
 would do is if we're still working on this and we're still not 100% there, is it possible for us to get some
 help? Some outside help on this. Okay. So here's what I want to do. Are you ready? I want to get a
 little bit vulnerable. Okay. Let's do a little role playing. Okay. So let's help our listeners really get this
 concept. So let's role play a conversation. Okay. I'll go back to the five year ago leader who was very defensive.
 You be you. Okay. I'll try. Let's get a little real and raw on the show. Okay. I cannot wait to see where you're going with this.
 Okay. So here's the scenario you're ready. Okay. So I'll be the leader. So one of my team members is going
 against our culture. Okay. And I'm feeling defensive for them and I'm not seeing the problem.
 So we're okay. So no wait. So you're fired. So who am I? Am I you? You're you.
 Okay. I'm being the defensive leader. Oh. So I'm coming to you saying hey you got to see
 member who's screwing up. Yes. Okay. Do I know what they're screwing up with? Well they're going against our
 culture. Okay. Okay. Okay. How about not putting clients first? Okay. I was going to go with not putting the
 dishes away but that is hilarious. We may have had this luck. One or twice. So let's go with that. Okay.
 Hey Heather. I don't know. Should I not look at you while we're doing it? All right. So hey I need to talk
 to you about so-and-so. Frank on your team. We're having some issues. You know how we are. Our culture
 is that we provide dishes, glasses, a whole kitchen for people to eat. We provide all the meals.
 All that kind of fun stuff. You know when we do. But what we're struggling with is his
 friend seems to be using a whole bunch of stuff and then just leaving it behind for somebody else to clean up.
 So what I need you to do is I need you to sit down with him and help him to see. That's no boy
 know that. You know we don't do that in this culture. Can you do that for me? Wow.
 Don't you think that everybody else is doing the same thing too? I mean Frank is not the only one.
 Okay. Valid. That's very possible. But we're specifically talking about things that we've seen
 Frank do. So if other people are doing this too, then I am more than happy to actually have a staff meeting
 discussion, which I will. I'm going to do that anyways. But specifically we're seeing Frank do this a lot.
 And so we really need him to understand how important this is. And that you know this is our culture.
 You you pick up after yourself. I don't even know where to go. I see. So this is the funny part about
 that, right, is that when you do this, when you do it this way and you're not attacking.
 Here's the thing. I have nowhere else to go, but go, you know what? I'm really right. You're right.
 I need to have that conversation with him. So let's try. Let's see if we could do this.
 Let's see if we could do this another way. I won't be me. I'll just be a leader who doesn't
 do the things that we teach. How about we try that? This is going to be tough.
 Hey, Heather, Frank keeps leaving his dishes and he's expecting other people to take care of those.
 So would you fix this place? I'm sorry. How do you even know it's him?
 Because I know. No, never been. Valley girls.
 Totally.
 Gagamy, I know it's him and his dishes are disgusting. So, so tell him he better clean it up.
 Our else, he's not going surfing.
 I can't do this with you. I know.
 How do you even know that there are Frank's dishes?
 Because people have seen Frank leaving the dishes behind and they've reported that to us.
 Well, other people have left their dishes behind too.
 I'm not talking about other people. I'm talking about Frank.
 I mean, honestly, in his KRA. It is our culture, Heather. How about you make sure your team is doing the
 thing? This is so probably like there's a lot of leaders going. What's wrong with what he's doing right now?
 As you can see, we're not really getting anywhere. It's not very effective in the process.
 I feel like this is like the banter back and forth or the arguments back and forth between
 kids. It's like, "Oh, yeah, louder than you." No, you, yeah, louder than me.
 Or no, it's in kids, right? So, as you can see, it's not very effective. Where the other way,
 within a couple of responses, you're like, "Well, I have no choice. I have to take
 responsibility." So, that's pretty much how I want to do that. So, folks, to remember the five
 steps to walk through when you're dealing with an uncouchable leader or a team member, we have a
 download for you. Now, I'm going to tell you how to get that right after my leadership coach,
 Joel Fortner, tells you how to start getting better results in your leadership and business and how to
 cut the leadership noise and do what works. Okay, so if you or one of your leaders are dealing with
 an uncouchable team member, go to curslicardo.com/332 and get the step-by-step download for how to have this
 conversation. Now, it will help you. And if you're needing to teach this framework to someone else,
 it's a great resource. Again, that's curslicardo.com/332 to get the free PDF. Well, folks, hopefully this is
 up to today. Thank you, Heather, for coming on here and being uncouchable. Be uncouchable.
 Bantering, absolutely. It was fun having you on. Well, folks, again, thank you for joining me today.
 I hope it has served you well. I encourage you to subscribe, rate, review, and share the podcast
 to help more people join our community. And as always, take this information, change your leadership,
 change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.