 Hey everyone, today's podcast will be a little different, and that is because I am out in
 California, writing my first book, and I'm unable to be in the studio this week. So I decided
 to grab one of our older popular podcasts that most of our new listeners haven't heard yet
 to be this week's podcast. For you new listeners, enjoy. And for our longtime listeners,
 I hope this refresher blesses you. I will be back with you soon, enjoy.
 Folks, I want to talk to you about something I am really excited about. According to our yearly
 surveys, the number one struggle for business leaders for three years running is lack of
 direction. So we're doing something new to help leaders solve this. September 19 through the 20th,
 we are hosting a line to discover and develop the right direction for your business. Now this
 is hands on, it's a hands-on workshop style event. In 36 hours, my leaders and I will work with you
 to align your business with the compelling mission, vision, and strategy. You'll figure out the
 right direction for your business and develop a great strategy to get there. There's a lot more
 info and 40 spots available. And until July 3rd, you can get a great discount on your tickets.
 So learn more at christlickrto.com/aligned. Again, that's christlickrto.com/aligned
 or text the word aligned to 44222. Again, that is the word aligned to the number 44222.
 Welcome to the christlickrto show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are. Hi, this is Kili. I just wanted to say thank you again
 for the Q&A session and I just wanted to share my biggest takeaway from that time. I asked about
 vision and you talked about the one thing that the one question you kept tying to finding vision was
 the question what do you want to do. For me, I just never thought to ask that. That was just like,
 oh my goodness. Basically, I just feel so free. I've been given permission to pursue those things
 that are in my heart. I don't know why I didn't think to ask that. But yeah, I just feel like my world
 has been opened up so much bigger. I just, yeah, that was just awesome. Thank you so much and
 there is other takeaways as well as far as like relationships and relating to people and overcoming
 and maturing in my own personality. So thank you so much for your time and yeah, I appreciate it.
 I just, I love me some Kili. What a great girl. We had a great time. We did a Q&A thing where we gave
 away the opportunity to have a 30 minute Q&A with me asking anything that you wanted to and I
 absolutely loved having that time with her great girl phenomenal potential in her life. I mean,
 there's so much that she has got that she can do and so much that she has in front of her. So thank you
 Kili for leaving that. We really appreciate that. So keeping in line with something that Kili said
 on her fantastic message there was that she felt like I gave her permission. And so today what I'm
 talking about is that is having permission is the feeling that you don't have permission and where that's
 coming from and why that's happening. And I'm hitting on this because this is something that we hear a lot here.
 In our events and our next level leadership events and our next level life events,
 we hear that a lot that people come through and they get this information they learn, they discover,
 they go through this process and what they come out with is, oh my gosh, I feel like I have permission to
 do fill in the blank. And it is so powerful for them that not only do they now feel like they have that
 permission but that they experience it in a way that showed them why they didn't have it in the first place.
 What they have been experiencing their whole life. One of our clients that was in here just the other day
 both Mike and Kathy were in here and I got to tell you we absolutely love these guys that we love their
 family. They have come through our events there in our next level mastermind group as well and they are just
 incredible people. And we had the great opportunity to meet their family. They came through on their way to
 a vacation spent time with us here at the office with so glad shout out to Tina McGurl who is very
 young listening to this show and that excites me whenever I've got somebody who's young who's listening to
 this information and putting it in place. I thank you all of you guys that are listening to me that
 are in your 20s, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s but I really love it with somebody young is going I want to learn
 so that I'm not figuring this stuff out when I'm 40. So that I'm not figuring this stuff out when I'm 60.
 I want to get this information now. So just so proud of her, proud of the other kids that are learning
 so much through personality styles, learning so much from their parents going through this information.
 So so glad but one of the greatest things that came up was as we were talking,
 Mike was sharing about things from his past and things that he experienced and things that he tried.
 I tried this and I tried this and if you think about it you have tried a lot of stuff in your life.
 There's probably plenty of you out there that have tried dating the wrong people that have tried
 going into bad places, doing drugs, doing whatever it is that you've tried these things in your
 life and looking back going what a colossal mistake and knowing that it impacted you negatively and
 knowing that you did something that hurt and knowing that some of those things are still hurting you
 to this day and as we were talking through this, Mike said, you know, I just felt like that you guys gave me
 the permission and Joel, Joel has walked him through a bunch of stuff that I feel like Joel gave me
 the permission and one of the things I helped him to see is, hey, we're actually not the ones giving
 you the permission. We're not the ones that are giving it to you. We're helping you to see what locked you
 down. We're helping you to see the decisions that you made and why you made in that way. We're helping you to
 see how to make phenomenal decisions and the thing that I said to Mike was I said, Mike, the key, the key
 word and everything that you're saying is, "Tried. I tried that. I tried that. I tried that. I tried that.
 And that's when I asked him the question, why were you trying all those things? Why did they not work out?
 And he said, because I was trying to fill a void. My whole life I have been trying to fill this void
 and praise God now I know. Now I know what it is and I know how to fill it. I know how to get rid of that.
 But back in those days, man, I tried a lot of stuff and none of it was working.
 And the key folks that you have to hear and that is that trying is the problem.
 You're trying to fill a void. You're trying to numb from experiences in your past that you don't
 understand. You're trying to shove things under the rug that you don't want to face or you don't want
 to experience. You're trying to do things that you think are going to find you happiness.
 And so with trying comes the if then theory. If I do this, then I'm going to be happy. If I experience
 this, then I'm going to be happy. If I can get my team to do this, then I'm going to be happy. If I can make
 my business do this and get to these numbers, then I'm going to be happy. That type of mentality,
 that type of thought process does nothing but hold you back. You cannot get your self worth
 from things that don't exist yet. Let me say that again. You cannot get your self worth from things
 that don't exist yet. And if you're trying to get yourself worth from things that don't exist,
 from things that you are assuming are going to be great, from things that you believe are going
 to make you happy, then you're absolutely wasting your time. You're wasting your time. You are choosing
 to go down a path that is going to do nothing but hurt you and leave you empty over and over and over again.
 You have to know that what you're trying to do is you're trying to get something out of something
 that doesn't exist. You cannot get your self worth from the future. You cannot get your self worth
 from things you haven't done yet. You cannot get your self worth by numbing yourself on a process. You cannot
 get your self worth from things that do not give you worth from things that do not give you
 value. You're not going to find your self worth for consistently in a spouse. You're not going to find
 your self worth and your identity in being a leader in being an entrepreneur in being a soccer mom in
 being whatever. Are you going to get some? Yes, absolutely. But you have to realize how long does it
 last? How long does that last? When you get your self worth from others, if you're a people
 pleaser, how long does it last? About five minutes? Then you have to go to a police somebody else. You
 really don't please that person because then it's going to knock you backwards. How long does it
 last getting your self worth? It doesn't. There's one place that you can consistently get your self worth and
 that's from God. There's one place that you can consistently get your self worth and that's from God.
 Period. That's the only place. That's the only place you can consistently get it. So you have to understand
 all the things you're trying to do to feel that void, to make yourself feel better, to make yourself feel worthy,
 to make yourself feel valued. They don't work or they work for five minutes. And I can tell you this.
 Riding that train is a lonely train. Actually, there's a lot of people on it. But there's actually
 a ton of people riding that train. But being on that train, trying to make that happiness happen five
 minutes at a time is wasting your life. It's wasting you away. It's a waste of process. Do not try to
 feel that void with stuff that doesn't fill the void. Every single day, every day when you wake up,
 you have to choose worth. You have to choose value. You have to choose God. If you don't,
 don't be surprised that you don't have worth. Don't be surprised that you're constantly trying to
 fill that void. You've got to make the decision every single day that you are worthy. You have the permission
 to be worthy because you already are. Why? How do you know? Simple. Let me ask this question.
 What is your value? I can tell you this. I ask this question all the time and people always give
 an answer that is not the one that I believe. A lot of times people say, well, it's the things that I can produce.
 And I will agree that for a lot of people in the past, that's exactly what their value is. It was
 something that they can produce. What I can do for God's kids, the fact that I'm God's child. I'll even
 hear that once in a while. Let me tell you what your value is. Your value is the act of love that happened
 with the cross. Your value is that somebody is so crazy and love with you that they took on the
 world's worst beating so you could spend everlasting life with him. That's your value. That's
 somebody loves you that much. That's your value. Not what you can produce. And well below that. So that's
 way up here. Tons of value. Non stop. Consistent value that you are loved that much. We think this is
 the life this and the life it's the next one. The next one's the important one. Be prepared for it.
 Understand that that's where your worth is. Understand yourself. Worth comes in being somebody that
 he loves so much that he took on all of that having his flesh ripped off his body for you.
 You have permission to feel worthy today. Choose it because he chose you. He's already chosen you.
 So you can be worthy or you can tell yourself and believe the lies from all the people in your
 your past that of influence you told you that you're not worthy. If you want to choose to
 believe them feel free. That's going to keep you trying to fill that void again and put those things
 in place. That's going to keep you on that train that lonely train that happens to be full of a lot of
 people going after the same junk. It's not going to work. Understand you already have permission
 to be worthy. You already have permission to be valuable. If no person on this planet values you,
 there's one who thinks you're so valuable that you are worth the world's worst beating.
 So if your parents don't think you're valuable, if your spouse doesn't think you're valuable,
 if your brother, sister, friends, neighbors, boss, team members don't think you're valuable. So what?
 So what? There's somebody who thinks you are absolutely valuable. Let me ask you,
 out those people around you that don't think you're valuable. How many of them have ever taken a punch for you?
 How many of them have ever had their arm broken for you? How many of them have ever
 jumped in front of a car for you? How many of them have ever taken a bullet for you?
 There's one person who had the flesh literally ripped off his back for you. Was beaten so badly
 that if his mother didn't know it was him, she would never have recognized him. That's a lot of
 folks. That is a lot. So if nobody else thinks you're valuable, so what? Quit seeking man for your value.
 Quit seeking man for approval of you. Quit seeking man for worth. Quit seeking drugs to fill the void.
 Quit seeking sex to fill the void. Quit seeking control to fill the void. Quit seeking
 submissiveness to fill the void. Quit seeking all of that junk. Quit seeking any of that stuff.
 Don't try to make people feel bad about themselves. So you feel good about you.
 Don't try and please people. So you feel good about you. That stuff doesn't last.
 And it sure's heck doesn't fill that void. You have permission today. You are worthy. You are valuable.
 Another key to this that you have to get. Heart of pastors say whatever you eagerly wait for
 is what controls your heart. Let me say that again. Whatever you eagerly wait for
 controls your heart. What are you waiting for? What are you waiting for? We have people that do
 not get in here for a year. When they come through our next level of event. And if you heard me say on
 the last podcast, we have actually created a powerful event. The transformational journey that we have
 helped people to experience. We have created a new powerful event next level of life. That is replaced
 our life planet. This is so crazy, powerful. And we have people that will come in here and do that event.
 And we asked them, "When did you decide you wanted to do this? I've been wanting to get in here for
 at least a year. We hear that all the time. All the time we hear that. What took you so long?
 Well, I just didn't make the decision well. I wasn't able to, you know what they're saying
 and the thing that we have heard people say is I didn't feel I was worthy of this event. Oh my gosh.
 Oh my gosh, that breaks my heart to hear people say I didn't think I was worthy of this event.
 Folks, you are so worthy of discovering the stuff that we help you to discover. You are so worthy of discovering
 the one who so crazy about you and loves you so much. We have people come through that don't believe in God
 and have a very powerful, powerful event. Very powerful. Trust me, it will change your life forever.
 But what are you waiting for? The thing that you eagerly wait for is the thing that controls your heart.
 If you are waiting to get yourself worth from people, guess what? You're going to keep
 please in people for a living. You're going to keep trying to please others. If you are waiting for a job
 or a title or if you are one of those leaders or entrepreneurs that finds their identity in their
 business because they've been doing it for 40 years. Guess what? That is what's going to control your heart.
 You keep trying or eagerly waiting to get fulfillment from something that can only fulfill you
 five minutes at a time and it sure has taken happen every day. You have permission. You have permission
 to move on from that. You have permission to feel worthy. You have permission to know that you are
 valued by somebody who is way more important than anybody else on this planet. You have permission.
 So make the decision. Right now. Make the decision right now. Choose. Choose happiness.
 Every day. When you wake up in the morning, choose it. Now, how? How do you get to that place? I'm going
 to tell you. One of the most powerful things you can do to get rid of all of the junk to be content in your
 life, which you need to be content with what's happening today. One of the ways to do that. One of the greatest
 ways to do that is to be thankful. Say, "You used to say all the time. How powerful it is to be thankful.
 I was blessed to be able to spend time with them a few different times in my life and just behind
 the scenes watching this man be just a beacon of light. The way he treated people, the way he loved
 on people. I am blessed to be friends with his son Tom. The apple does not fall far from the tree.
 I can tell you, when you see Tom Ziggler, you see a man who's thankful, who loves on people well,
 and all of that comes from his fulfillment from God. Watching a man be so thankful,
 look at how incredible he was. Look at how happy he was. You can ask out because
 I've done it. I remember years ago saying, "Was Dad always happy on the back side?"
 Oh, of course. Yep. Dad always chose happiness. Every day get up and the first thing that I do,
 you want to know what I do first thing in the morning, every day. The first thing I do, thank God,
 praise God. Tell him how thankful I am. Praise him for how amazing and how awesome he is. That is
 the start of my day every day. Now, do I get into asking a whole bunch of stuff for me? Oh yeah. Yep.
 Yep. I do. I ask for a lot and guess what. He expects that. He knows that. He's not surprised at
 where I am in life, but I thank him and I praise him. When you become thankful, go to your team
 members. You don't have to be the leader. You don't have to be the entrepreneur.
 Thank your team members for experiences. Thank your team members for things that they're doing on a daily
 basis. Thank your family. Thank your spouse. Thank your kids. Find people doing things right and an
 amazing thing will happen. You will find it is much more difficult to focus on the things that are going
 wrong in your life. Be thankful. Be thankful. Praise people. Tell people how thankful you are.
 As you do that, you put yourself in a much better place to be happy. Don't do it so that you can
 get response back by the way. Don't try to people please. Because once again, that's going to be an empty
 place. That's not going to feel the void. But instead spend time doing it for them.
 Choose. Thankfulness. Choose happiness. Every day you've got to get up and choose happiness.
 Write it on your mirror. I don't care. Put it on the dashboard of your car. Put it on your
 discreem of your computer. Choose to be happy. Choose to be thankful. And understand that you are
 the only one who can impact your soul. Nobody else. Nobody but you and God. No other human being
 can impact your soul. You can only allow their incredible suggestion to impact your soul.
 But you are the one who is responsible for you. So choose. Choose happiness. You have the permission.
 You have the permission to focus on you. There's a lot of bad teaching out there that says,
 "If you focus on you, that's just selfish." And that's anti-Christian. "Oh my gosh, go away. Get away from me."
 Focus on taking care of God's kids as much as you can. Do it as much as you possibly can.
 But understand this. You also have to be healthy. If you're not healthy, how healthy can you be for others.
 So you have the permission to take care of yourself. You have the permission to get you healthy.
 All of those folks that don't come in for the next level of life that takes them a year to get here,
 it breaks my heart. Why? Because I know that they're choosing another year to not change their
 lives. To not get their life changed. That breaks my heart. Get your life changed. You have the permission.
 But understand today, make the decision. Choose happiness, choose thankfulness, and know that you have the
 permission. Folks, hopefully that helps you out. As always, take this information, do something with it,
 change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]