 The primary struggle for most leaders in business on us three years in a row.
 More on that coming up next.
 Where's my soup?
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 [MUSIC]
 Well, welcome to the show folks.
 Let me ask you a question, not where your soup is, but what is the process you use when you're going to take a trip?
 Now for me, I'm about to take off and go write a book.
 Yes, yes, I know.
 Many of you have been asking for that for very long time and yes, I'm finally going to go and actually write the first of probably many.
 But first, before I go on a trip and this specific trip is for that,
 but I'm also going to drive across country, go back home to like to home, where I'm from, to get some great quality inspiration as I write.
 And instead of writing a car for weeks while I'm out there, I'm actually going to be driving mine.
 I like mine.
 I like my car.
 So I'm going to be driving across country.
 So I've got to figure out how I'm going to get there.
 I need a plan.
 I need a road map of sorts.
 Now, of course, this is 2019.
 So I don't actually need a map map.
 I've got my phone, which is going to be, I've got the GPS that's going to guide me with the directions.
 But I need the location and the route that I want to take.
 I need to know where I'm going to stay along the way.
 After all that is done, I actually get to move forward and enjoy that incredible trip, which for me is going to be a lot of work.
 But it's going to be working in a place that is inspiring to me, which I need when I write.
 Some of you may be natural writers.
 I need a little bit of inspiration as I write.
 So folks, the same is true about business.
 There's a process every leader needs to follow when it comes to leading.
 You have to know your mission and your vision.
 Now, for me, mission and vision.
 We're going to go with my definitions because this is so all across the board.
 I mean, there's so many different definitions, but here's what my definitions for you are.
 And this is the stuff that leads you and point you towards success.
 Mission is the purpose for your existence.
 What is the purpose for your businesses existence?
 You need to know what that is.
 You need to know what it is, your team members need to know what it is.
 They need to know why they show up every day.
 What is their biggest purpose?
 If their biggest purpose is showing it for a paycheck, guess what?
 That's all they're going to work for, right?
 If you don't have something deeper, bigger, that's more important for them than that is their purpose.
 So you need to understand, you need to discover what is your purpose for existence as a business.
 Vision is where we're going.
 That's our destination.
 That's where we are headed.
 You know, you can have one mission, but you can have 700 different destinations, different visions.
 Right?
 One after another after another after another.
 So we're going to talk about those things, but those are the definitions that we're going to use as we go through this.
 So many folks here, the phrase mission or vision, and they go back to all the junk that happened in the 90s when mission and vision were just buzzwords.
 And people took very, very powerful business tools and turned them into plaques on a wall.
 And then people didn't realize how important it actually was for their direction.
 So those are the things that we are talking about today.
 So your team has to know it.
 Everything needs to be aligned to it.
 We are talking about this today because this is what we heard from you from the surveys we have done the last three years.
 One of the top struggles you have is lack of direction for your business.
 Three years of survey data has shown us the same trend that the primary struggle for most leaders and business owners is a
 lack of direction for the company every year.
 This is the number one issue.
 So what does a lack of direction look like?
 It can be unmotivated team members.
 That again, don't have a purpose bigger than their paycheck to show up.
 So they come and give you half of their potential productivity.
 It could be poor or non-existent decision making processes.
 It could be that you, you're the one who makes all the decisions.
 It can be leadership, I can sense it can be whatever, but we don't have great decision making processes.
 It could be no roadmap.
 We find this all the time.
 No strategic goals or initiatives that actually help you get to where you should be going.
 We can see all kinds of strategic goals inside of businesses, but a lot of times they're not going to where the business should be heading to.
 We see it with overwhelming leaders that are spread just way too thin,
 focusing on the wrong business models.
 Team moving in different directions.
 We call this the shotgun approach.
 Where you actually have people moving forward, but they're all going in different directions.
 Instead of a unified vision, a unified direction where everybody is moving the business as a whole,
 forward in one direction instead of going in 17 different directions.
 Folks, I want to talk to you about something I am really excited about.
 According to our yearly surveys, the number one struggle for business leaders for three years running is lack of direction.
 So we're doing something new to help leaders solve this September 19 through the 20th.
 We are hosting a line discover and develop the right direction for your business.
 Now this is hands on.
 It's a hands-on workshop style event in 36 hours.
 My leaders and I will work with you to align your business with the compelling mission, vision and strategy.
 You'll figure out the right direction for your business and develop a great strategy to get there.
 There's a lot more info and 40 spots available.
 So learn more at christlickrto.com/aligned again.
 That's christlickrto.com/aligned or text the word aligned to 4 4 2 2 2 2 again.
 That is the word aligned to the number 4 4 2 2 2 2.
 So some diagnostic questions to see if the direction of your business is well established and clear.
 First thing, do you know the organization's mission in vision?
 Again, you hear me talk all the time about businesses that we bring in through strap plan that are, you know,
 we sit down and we go through the whole business.
 Whenever I ask the question to a leadership team inside of strap plan,
 now I'm giving the heads up to other leadership teams that are about to come in for their event.
 Like everybody better know our mission.
 So what I ask the question, hey, what is our mission?
 It is amazing and it's every single time I have yet.
 To have a single company coming through strap plan or the whole leadership team, new the mission of the company.
 Most of the time, even the main leader can't quote it word for word.
 Why?
 Because it has not been written and discovered what the actual true purpose for that company's existence is.
 It's not been put down in a form of going, oh my gosh, this is why we show up every single day.
 It's not put down in a way that team members can look at that and go, I know what my reason for coming to work every single day is.
 I know what we're trying to accomplish.
 I know what our purpose is for existence.
 The vision side is always, always, always all over the board.
 There are ideas, there are dreams, there are things we want to try and accomplish, but the amazing thing is, as if I say, hey, what is the vision of the company?
 So do this right now yourself.
 What is the vision of your company?
 If you cannot describe that to me right now, right at the bat, say, Chris, this is exactly what our vision is.
 This is where we're headed.
 You know, this is the next destination.
 This is what we're doing.
 And if you cannot explain that to me, you are absolutely lacking in vision for your business.
 Which points to all kinds of problems that are inside of your business, like the shock and approach, like the people not having a great purpose, like not having great processes in place, like, you know, all of those struggles that we're having in wondering why we're not all moving in the same direction.
 Another question to ask is are the tasks that team members are completing driving business growth, are they driving revenue?
 Or are there other relevant KPIs that grow the business?
 Is the stuff that every team member is doing on a daily basis actually pointing your business towards great growth?
 Is the stuff that everybody's doing actually pointing your business in the same direction for great revenue?
 These are the things that you have to know because chances are you have got one or many team members that a good portion of their day may not be focused on the right tasks.
 Another question is, is your team self motivated and energized by the mission and the vision of the business?
 Can you tell you, my mission here is worshiping God by loving his children and guiding individuals and organizations to greater perspective? That is our mission.
 So my team that shows up every single day, they know that mission and that is why they're here, that is their purpose.
 The vision that we have is played out in all of the ways that we are reaching people for life change for business change for leadership change.
 All of these pieces that we have laid out along with the strategies to get there.
 So we actually have multiple destinations that we are moving toward and being very successful in doing so.
 So my team shows up and they are very self motivated because they already have a purpose behind them that they are excited to show up every day.
 And it doesn't have to be, you know, people say, well, that's great.
 You're changing lives. What about my company that is pouring concrete? Okay. The same thing I ask every single time is, you know, whenever I get one of those responses is, are you pouring concrete in the same hole for 40 hours a week?
 Well, of course not. Okay. Well, what are you doing with it? Oh, you know, we do drive ways or we do back patios. Okay. And what happens on a back patio.
 I don't know, Barbara Cues or people laying out in sunbathing. Okay. So you're actually creating something for people to have a great life.
 You're putting in a patio for somebody to, for that family to come around a barbecue pit to share time to commune.
 Then I would say that you're doing something much bigger than just pouring concrete.
 So these are things that your team needs to see when it comes to purpose when it comes to vision, where are you headed?
 What is your destination? Where's the place you're going? Are you going as a unified team, which very rarely do we find that companies are moving in a unified direction?
 Because again, the shotgun approach happens all the time.
 Another question is, do you operate off of initiatives and goals that are specified with action steps and do dates?
 One of the biggest things we do is help people to actually put down specific goals, specific strategies, specific initiatives with not only the action steps, but timelines.
 You've got to have the timelines for the action steps. You need the accountability in this process, right? Do you have a well-defined decision making process?
 You follow for every business decision and opportunity.
 If any of those questions were knows or made you uncertain, you may have a lack of direction.
 I can promise you, you do. I know I've been there.
 That was one of the frustrating things in my early early leadership that not having great direction or working for a company that didn't have a great purpose and didn't have great direction.
 It frustrated the daylights out of me.
 And so it caused me to drive towards that and learn how to implement that in my own leadership.
 And that's carried over for decades into what I do for business, right?
 Many of us have discovered that we can't accomplish our vision by just working harder, by just putting it over time or sheer willpower and desire, right?
 You can't arrive at an undefined destination. You have to know where you want to take your business to get it there.
 Here's why matters. So let's talk about what it's like if you don't have a vision. So you're not going to land the plane. So planes, right?
 Courskerect over time. After they've set their destination through many, many small adjustments. The course corrections seem very minor, but if they're not made over time, then they'll end up in Detroit instead of Vermont, which is a very different outcome, right?
 You could be looking to go to the mountains, the ghost gang, and you end up at the beach.
 If you don't make those course corrections over time, you end up in a different destination.
 I cannot tell you how many business leaders or leaders that set out in a direction and end up not even close to where they wanted to be, but they're still doing a lot of stuff.
 They're doing stuff, they're doing stuff. They're getting things accomplished every day, but it is only the repetition of doing stuff. They keep doing it.
 The money's coming in and sales are happening, but they're not getting to the destination that they wanted to in the first place. Your team members can work harder and more efficiently when they know where they're supposed to be going.
 And they either course correct on their own or you intentionally course correct them. If you don't know where you're going, what is your team doing for 40 hours a week? Where are they headed?
 So let's go back to the surveys that we've had. Number one problem, lack of direction. Leaders, business owners.
 If you have a lack of direction and that's the number one problem we see in our surveys, guess what?
 So does every single person you're paying on your payroll? Think about that for a second.
 If you have a lack of direction as a leader, if you have a lack of direction as a business owner, so does every single person on your team.
 So we need to define it, right? Here's where the beauty of a strong mission and vision statement comes in. Here's what it can look like.
 So here's some examples. Google's mission is to organize the world's information and make it universally acceptable and useful.
 Life is good. Their mission is spreading the power of optimism. Patagonia is build the best product because no unnecessary harm.
 Use business to inspire and implement solutions to the environmental crisis.
 Now, I don't care what your thoughts are on any of those companies. The point of me sharing those is not because I'm behind any of those companies.
 The point is, is I'm showing you that these companies have a purpose. A purpose that their team can get behind. A purpose that their leadership can get behind.
 Where people can show up every day and go, "This is my goal. For life is good spreading the power of optimism."
 Guess what? Now it's short. It's sweet. I'm sure there's more purpose behind that, but that's the mission statement that they put out.
 The people can show up for that. So I am not saying, so please make sure that this is clear.
 A mission statement isn't the only thing you need. Discovering what your purpose is what you need.
 Discovering your reason for existence is what you need. That is a much bigger process than writing down five words on a piece of paper.
 Okay, so please make sure I hope you're hearing me on this. I'm not saying what you need is to just be able to write down five words on a piece of paper. That is not what I'm saying.
 What I'm saying is you need to discover what your purpose is.
 First is leaders. We need to understand the difference between mission and vision.
 I talked about this at the top of the show. Right? Mission is our purpose for existence.
 And this must come first. So your mission statement should answer who cares? Who cares?
 You know, if you're looking at putting together your mission or mission statement,
 it should state the purpose of the organization or individual, depending upon whatever statement you're putting together, why it exists.
 So it serves as a guide in your decision-making process.
 There aren't any decisions that we make around here in this business that don't align with our mission statement.
 Seriously, when we're talking about business decisions, I'm not saying, you know, where we go to lunch. I'm saying is we're looking to put a program in place.
 When we're looking to tax the team on adding a couple of events or whatever the thing is, everything that we're looking at has to align with that mission.
 Literally. So we don't put things in place like events that we could sell and make tons of money on because it's an event that we can make tons of money on.
 We just don't focus on it. That's not our goal. Our goal is change lives. First worship God and then change the lives of his kids.
 That's our goal. If the thing that we're doing is not going to be behind that, we just don't want to do it. It's a waste of time for us.
 And it removes from our purpose. So for us, we want to do something that we can put in place that we can make our decisions based on.
 That I know that anybody on my team, if they're making a decision, they have a guide.
 Does this align with does the way I'm treating this client align with this purpose? Is it more important for me to get my thing taking care of that it is to serve a client on this thing?
 Well, I don't know. Let's take a look at our mission statement. Nope.
 It does not align. So instead follow that rule. Vision or vision statements. And again, a statement is just the statement of the vision. So the vision is much bigger than a piece of paper.
 I hope I'm making this very clear. The goal isn't to just sit down and write down a vision of where you're headed. That's not going to get you there.
 It's much bigger than that. But it should answer where are we going? A vision is the destination.
 And again, you should have one mission. You could have 700 different destinations, but you should not. You should not have 700 different destinations at the same time.
 Okay. So vision is where we're going. It should state where the organization intends to be.
 By achieving objectives based on its mission. Let me say that again, your vision should be how the organization achieves objectives based on your purpose.
 And you know how many leaders are never taught this and don't understand how to build their teams or how to for business owners, how to build their business based on this.
 People don't show them that you should actually first be focusing on what the purpose is and then all of your objectives, your strategy, your decision making.
 All of that should be pointing toward the destination that we're heading to, but all of that should be based on achieving the objectives that are based on that purpose.
 So it gives direction to leadership, helping them to stay away from task saturation.
 It gives the team a common a unified direction. It should be a stretch for your team to reach.
 We're not talking about putting something in place that's super easy and it's, you know, it's just basic. It should actually stretch your team because our goal is also to grow our team as we go.
 And it should describe a destination that is irresistible to your team.
 Your team looks at the destination that you have in place and they're like, "Eh, young, then guess what? You probably aren't headed towards a great destination."
 Or you probably have never been through a great process that's helped you to discover the right destination.
 So when you have a great vision in place, when you know where we are going, it shows us where we are headed if circle highlights star the word if, if we accomplish both the mission, the purpose for existence and the strategy, how we get there.
 Let's talk about how to get there. We're going to have a download to help with what we're talking about. Now step one is to determine who will help you shape your mission statement. This is really big guys.
 Business owners don't just come up with this on your own. A lot of business owners out there don't tax the collective intelligence of their leadership team.
 So if you're a leader coming up with this, if you're not the business owner, then you might want to actually take a hard look with the business owner and say, "Hey, do we really have a great purpose? We really have something that people can latch on to and try and get one for the business."
 Some of you may be working in a business where the business owner doesn't care. That's very possible. I'm sorry if that's where you are. Then you may come up with a mission for your team. Here we don't have individual team missions.
 Because we are all unified working on the same fantastic mission, our same fantastic purpose. So people don't need individual ones. If you work for a company that just doesn't care and you want to put purpose behind your team, great sit down figure that out.
 Business owners figure out who's going to help you. Don't try and just do this on your own. If you don't have a solid enough leadership team to actually give input on this, I would question.
 I would question the hires of your leaders. I'm dead serious. If you can't sit down with your leadership team, if I couldn't sit down with my leadership team and shape something like this, man, I would be really reconsidering who I have on my leadership team.
 I would answer the right questions. We have 10 questions that are going to help you to get started in this process. Again, that's on the download that we're going to have available for you. So no problem there.
 Step number three, produce the finished product that will change the course of your business through an intentional editing process.
 Three of these steps, we have got available for you that's going to be on a download and to get the download to start shaping your mission statement. Again, it's 10 questions to get you started.
 You can go to crystalqr.com/334. That's crystalqr.com/334. Now, that is a great start, but there's a lot of action to be taken to get true alignment and clarity in your business.
 And when you're in a craft or vision, you need to be able to take a hard look at your true capacity of resources, your desired achievements.
 And you need to really really tax the collective intelligence in this process.
 Then once you have your mission and vision statement solid, there's a strategy.
 How are you going to implement your mission and vision through strategic goals and initiatives? And how are you going to get your team on board?
 Sounds intense, right? It's a lot of work. And whether you need to craft your mission and vision, refresh it or integrate it into your culture and decision making, you need time, you need focus and you need the right tools.
 So, if you're always working in your business, not on it, which is a struggle for so many leaders, then there's trouble ahead.
 You've got to get to a place where you're working on your business, not just in your business. Now, we would never drive our cars, places without knowing where we're going unless you're just going on a Sunday drive without any good direction.
 And again, that would go against what we're talking about today. We wouldn't drive a blindfolded.
 You know, we could end up crashing it into a halt. We could end up crashing our cars, right?
 So don't let that be what happens in your business. Get the tools and training you need to set solid direction through mission, vision, strategy and goals this fall.
 But folks, hopefully that has helped you today. Thank you for joining me. I hope it's served you well. I encourage you to subscribe, write and share the podcast to help more people join our community and as always.
 Take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]