 There's one thing we all have in our root systems that guides our thoughts, actions, and decisions.
 More on that, coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life,
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 [Music]
 So one morning, I knew coffee, and I took my youngest daughter with me to the 7-11, and she was less than two.
 And as I went inside, character inside, and little P.J.s, and everything, and set her up on the
 counter as I grabbed the coffee pot, and I grabbed the big O' Starer phone cup, and started to pour
 the coffee into the cup while Mickey, my cell is her name. She looks over at the little burner
 that the coffee pot just came off of, takes her hand and presses it right onto the burner.
 Folks, I literally dropped my coffee and freaked out, yanked her hand off of the thing, as she started
 to absolutely scream. And I mean, she was screaming, and literally within nanoseconds, all these thoughts
 ran through my head. I am a horrible person. I'm not worthy of being a parent. Her mother is absolutely
 gonna kill me. I'm embarrassed on this last piece because all of these rathar I had super, super fly fast.
 The last thought I had was, I should just take her to Mexico. That is a legit thought that went through
 my brain during this process, as I'm freaking out telling myself how horrible of a person I am.
 Now, I didn't get any father the year awards for allowing her to, you know, putting her in a place where
 she could put her hand on a hot plate. That was not the smartest thing on the planet, but all
 of the other lies I was able to work through and discover that they were lies. Obviously, I was not a
 horrible person who had just damaged my daughter for the rest of her life. Obviously, her mother did
 not kill me. So that's good thing I'm still around. Mickey did not remember this even happening,
 although we joke about it, you know, 30 years later. That's quite funny. I had to work through
 all these lies, you know, because for a while I still believed that I was such a horrible person for allowing
 that accident to happen. Once again, not the smartest thing I've ever done in my life, but I am
 not defined by that one moment. Unfortunately, we have a tendency to live in the lies that we tell
 ourselves. What we're talking about today is going deeper on something that impacts all of our
 root systems. So think about the visual we talked about in understanding your root system. You have your
 grape vines and you have, you know, that are above the ground and down in the soil is that network of
 roots, that root system that is pulling all the stuff, the minerals, all the deposits up back into
 the fruit that is back up above the soil. Now, there's one thing that tends to live in a lot of our
 soils that gets pulled up through our root system, and that is the lies that we believe. Now, a lot of times
 we have lies that are introduced to us throughout our life where people try to convince us that we are
 maybe a horrible person that we're not worthy, that we can never do good enough that we're never going to be
 enough for somebody else, that we don't deserve, this is one of the ones that just
 lays me and that is how many people in all of our programs. Doesn't matter what it is, feel like they don't
 deserve to be in one of our programs, whether it's next level of life, next level of mastermind,
 when the live events, whatever it is, every time I discover or hear that, it drives me nuts because
 how did that get planted? But somehow it did. Now, if we're not going to sit here and blame a
 whole bunch of people for our lies that are in our root system, our goal is to gain as much perspective on
 what's there. A ton, most of the lies that we tell ourselves and believe, we tell to ourselves. So,
 lies are deposited in the soil, but we also create a bunch as well. Before we dig into that, I want to tell
 you about one of my favorite things that we do here at the Poem and group, and then it's all about
 understanding your root system to find clarity, more peace, and an incredibly stronger life.
 Next level of life is our two-day personal discovery experience. It's a one-on-one personalized event
 where we guide you through a process to help you discover your root system, to get on stuck in life
 and to discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace. Imagine this, what if you could wake up
 every morning with a clear purpose? What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less
 conflict? Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years, if you had clarity, purpose, and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today. Now, I know it's possible because I've been
 where you are asking myself, "Is there more? There is?" And there is a better way. And it starts
 with the next level of life. You can go to Chrissacorda.com/discover to take the next step. Now, if you're struggling
 with this contentment, regrets, or not feeling good enough, which most of you are, if you're filled
 with anxiety or your relationships are lacking, don't keep going through the same motions every single
 day. Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace. Go to Chrissacorda.com/discover and take
 the next step. Now, you most likely have lies that have been deposited into your soil of your root
 system, how to things get into the soil. It can be from situations. It can be from people. All of
 these things, it's in a lot of the lies, like I said, most of the lies we actually tell ourselves. We
 create them ourselves. These things shape our beliefs, they shape our decisions, and they absolutely
 shape the actions that we have from them. So here's kind of what it looks like when lies surface.
 So if we take an example situation for somebody who probably doesn't feel very good about themselves,
 maybe it doesn't feel worthy, maybe it doesn't feel like they are good enough. If they get the
 opportunity for a promotion or a role change at work, something that's going to be putting them into a
 higher position, a more important role in the business, whatever that is, then here's an example
 of what a behavior in that situation for a person who doesn't feel good about themselves. I'm not talking
 about yourself, a steam. I'm saying you really believe that you're not good enough. An example,
 behavior would be crazy anxiety, feeling incredibly insecure, feeling like, what would the lie or
 what are some potential lies behind the behavior? I can't fail. I'm not good enough. I'm not worthy
 enough of this. I don't deserve this promotion. I'm going to screw this up. If I mess up,
 it is going to brand me a lifelong failure. These are just some of the lies that come behind a situation
 like this. When we believe lies that we're not good enough, when we believe lies that we're a failure,
 then what happens is we become incredibly fearful of anything that is going to affirm the lie that we
 believe. Let me say that again, we become incredibly fearful. We try to avoid anything that will
 affirm to us the lie that we believe. So much so that many people, it will actually become a self-fulfilling
 prophecy. They will sabotage their process, the thing, the situation so that it doesn't fail
 when they're not expecting it. They're actually controlling the failure themselves. And what happens is,
 it literally affirms to the person, see, you are a failure. See your mom, your dad, always told you
 there's no way you're going to be good at that. You're going to screw that up. You're spouse,
 your friends told you there's no way you can be successful at that. And instead of giving it an incredible
 try instead of working our butts off at it, we self-sabotage ourselves into the process.
 All of this coming from the lie behind the behavior, the lies that we believe. These lies control,
 again, they shape our beliefs, our decisions and our actions. Getting to the truth, not necessarily
 the opposite of the lie. Now, this is one of the things, this is one of the most important things that
 we teach at the end of next-level life is actually being able to battle through that crap.
 That exists. And so our goal is to make sure that we get to the truth. So the lie of I'm going to fail,
 I'm going to mess this thing up. I'm not good enough. The truth that isn't, I'm not going to fail.
 The truth of that is we have to start by discovering why am I telling myself that?
 Why do I believe that I am going to fail? Why am I telling myself that I'm not good enough?
 And the truth is, is that something that is also buried in our root system, which takes some time to
 discover what it is, something is telling us that our worth comes from our success,
 which is always in the eyes of other people, our value comes from the success that is in the eyes of other
 people. So if we fail, it's going to affirm that we're horrible because we know people are going to judge
 the daylights out of us. That's what we tell ourselves, right? So when we dig down inside and we go,
 what is the real reason that we're telling ourselves this? What we can discover, an example on this,
 would be that we are absolutely trying to not lose worth to other people, or we're trying to
 gain worth from other people. And a situation like this, again, built around our accomplishments, built around
 our success. If you grew up with a parent that you could never be successful for, then what you
 end up telling yourself is, you're never going to be good enough. You're going to fail at things. You're
 going to fail at everything. So the truth in this is not, no, you're not going to fail. The truth has to
 become something like your worth does not come from the opinions of others. Your worth does not come
 from your success rate. Now, your worth or value to your business may absolutely be your accomplishments,
 right? But I want you to stop and think about those for a second. Why is somebody offering you a promotion
 if your worth is that you suck and you fail at everything? So you have to get in there and go,
 I have the truth is I have been successful. The truth is they would not offer me this role if I was a
 failure. The truth is, and you had to find those truths to battle those lies. And again,
 almost never is it the opposite of the lie. It's something that you have to dig in and discover. Now,
 where do these lies come from? It's very important that we understand that in these discussions,
 everything that we do here is focusing on gaining greater perspective. Our goal is not to make any
 victims. Our goal is not to make any monsters every time we do next level of life. That's one of the
 first things that we tell people. We're not going to make you of it. We're not going to make anybody out some
 monster. But we are going to gain perspective so that we can help you heal and replace the lies with truths.
 So there's many times we actually have to look at situations that have happened not to really
 of them, but to gain the perspective to help us to know where the lie is coming from, why the lie
 exists in the first place. Now, first thing is we tell ourselves a lot of lies. When we perceive or
 receive things negatively, we tell ourselves lies. If we think that we're going to fail at something,
 we will tell ourselves lies. If we believe people are judging us on something, we will tell ourselves lies.
 If we feel like we're not worthy, we will tell ourselves lies. There is a whole ton of negative
 self-talk that we can create in our own brains. And the crazy thing is, there's a lot of people
 walking this planet that do not realize they do it. There was a study out about how many negative things
 you tell yourself on a day in the percentage is just too high for me to even repeat it. Because
 I just don't want it to be true. I don't want to believe it. Now, I don't know how they can actually
 literally track the percentage. But what it does do is get you thinking how many negative things
 do run through my brain in a day. Now, I'll just share it with you. So the stat is that you have 50 to
 70,000 thoughts a day and that 80% of those are negative. Now, I just don't want to believe that.
 I'm going to have a negative thought about that right now. I don't believe it. I can't imagine that
 that stat is true, but it sure does get me to thinking what percentage is the negative thoughts that
 run through my brain? How many negative ideas do I have? Do I think I have 80% negative thoughts in my brain?
 I don't. I hope not. But I do know I have a lot. So one of the things we have to understand is how
 many times are we telling ourselves lies? How many times are we telling ourselves things that we have
 no basis for? We have no perspective on, but we are believing them. We've all done that. We've all accused
 other people in our mind of judging us and we have no clue if they even are thinking about the same
 thing we're thinking about. So the first place we have to understand is that we tend to be the ones
 who lie to ourselves the most. Now, many people have other folks that tell them lies and believe it. So
 you may be somebody who has people in your life like parents, family, teachers, mentors,
 not a great mentor, best friends, neighbors, co-workers, leaders, somebody in your life. You might
 have somebody who is struggling heavily with the worth of themselves. That tend to tell you lies. I have
 for many, my whole life. I've had people in my life that will tell me things about me that don't
 even relate to me. But they will tell me these things to try and knock me down to make themselves feel
 better and in the early days it used to just destroy me because I believed it and it built a ton of guilt
 in my life. It wasn't until I realized that the thing that was being said and I totally disagreed with
 what was being said, but my people pleasing personality style just received it all and sucked it all in
 and just continued to repeat the lie in my own brain. It wasn't until I actually worked through
 that stuff and discovered what I was doing and started discovering the truth. Now, little right turn here,
 caveat here. If you are responsible for the thing that you're being told, take responsibility.
 So if you walk into, I don't know, conversation and you're being a jerk and somebody's
 "Lickitude and Go's, you're being a jerk, take responsibility, you're being a jerk." They may not have
 been the nicest in telling you, but look at you. You're being a jerk in a situation. If you are
 discussing what somebody that you would like to take a promotion and they go, you know there's no
 possible way you're going to be able to do that job. You know you're not good enough for that. You know
 you're going to fail. That's the time you have to start asking yourself the question, is that truth?
 Is what I'm hearing truth? So many times there are lies that get spoken into our lives.
 And the problem is, now here's the crazy thing, somebody can't actually make you feel bad. Somebody can't
 make you feel unworthy. Somebody can't make you not be good enough. All they can do is highly suggest that you
 believe that you are. That's the problem because the moment we receive it, we are. So if somebody tells
 you, you're not good enough to take a promotion and you believe it, you receive it, then guess what?
 Now you are. I think it was Henry Ford that said, whether you believe you can or believe you can't
 you're right. Whatever you believe in that moment, you're right. If you believe you're not good enough,
 then you're going to continue to walk forward or not walk forward at all. You're going to do
 you just stand in your same spot or retreat. And self-sabotage because the thing you believe is you're
 not good enough. So the thing to understand is, if you grew up with that person or people in your
 life that tell you these negative things, again, sometimes it's expectations from parents. I can't tell you
 maybe the parent. You may be the parent who has unreasonable expectations of your kid. I was working
 with one of my team members recently about how they were feeling like this pressure that they had to go
 in do something in their life. And when we sat down I said, "God, calling you to this."
 And are you even built for this? Are you able to pull this off? The interesting thing is the lie that
 they were telling themselves was, "I'm lazy. I'm not good enough because I haven't done this thing
 that other people have done." At the end of the day when they realized that if they did go do that
 thing, it was going to be incredible stress on their life. And they looked at it through the lens of the
 truth, not the lies that they were telling themselves. And nobody else had told them this.
 Nobody else had told them you need to go do this. It was something that they put on themselves.
 Once they looked at it through the truth, they realized that is not going to be a good thing for me.
 It's going to affect me. It's going to affect my family. So you have to be able to take a look at that
 and see, is there somebody? Obviously you most likely are. So again, we've already talked about that.
 But is there somebody in your life? Do you have parents that have bad expectations of you?
 Are you the parent that has unreasonable expectations of your kids? Are you somebody who is always
 needing control? And you've got a great friend who keeps out shining you. So you keep knocking them down.
 And telling them that they're not good. They suck or they're prideful or whatever. And it's all because
 you're struggling with something. So there's so many different ways that people tell us lies that we
 believe in sometimes, you know, where the ones telling somebody the lie. So you have to see that the
 the purpose behind it always comes down to worth every single time. And you've heard me say,
 "Over and over again, you cannot get quality worth from people." It doesn't last very long.
 There's only one place to get it that's always consistent. And that is from God. And the love of God
 who says, "You are worthy to him." He proved that what the cross. So a lot of people feel the need to
 tell us lies. Well, as you come through our doors into our event space above the door, one of our
 clients made this years ago. He's a woodworker and he made this sign that says, "Heart people hurt people
 because that's one of the things that came out of his event as we were walking through it was helping him
 to see that he had some people in his life who kept hurting him because of how hurt they were."
 You have to understand, hurt people hurt people. Over and over and over again.
 As I look back on my life and I see some of the situations that happened, I can actually see
 that a person was choosing to hurt me because of what they were experiencing. The truth is,
 those people are believing lies. They are believing the lies that they are telling themselves. So many
 people come through next-level life, feeling like they never mesh her up to their parents, feeling like they're
 never good enough for their parents, feeling like they're never worthy enough for their parents,
 only to discover that their parents felt exactly the same. A lot of the time,
 the parent is telling the kid that they're not good enough, that they're not worthy enough.
 And so they believe those lies, right? And again, it's not just parents that comes from all types
 of situations in your life, but this tends to be the biggest place. Only to find out that the parent
 was believing lies themselves. So these beliefs hold us back from becoming something greater, from believing
 in yourself, from becoming a better leader, from taking that new role, from becoming a business owner,
 from being at peace, feeling the blank. Take a look at the stuff that this is holding you back
 from these lies, this broken belief system. Take a look and list out the things that's holding you back
 from. The other thing I want you to look at, how much energy do you spend every single day
 telling yourself these lies? How much energy do you spend focusing on the negativity? Think of that.
 It's amazing to me how much somebody can wear themselves out with negative self-talk.
 So if you're tired today, ask yourself the question, how much of that tiredness is coming from the
 negative things you're telling yourself? All right, we'll be right back after you hear about getting
 greater results in your business and leadership. Hey, Joel Fortner here. I'm the Vice President
 of Leadership Development on Chris's team and I oversee our next-level mastermind program.
 Next-level mastermind lays out a clear path to success for you in your business. It shows you how to
 make the right decisions, solve complex problems, and lead more effectively. This is why collectively
 our clients saw on average a 46% increase in net profit over the last 12 months. I know business is tough
 and we build a system around you and give you the tools to help you win. To learn more, visit us at
 ChrisLecordo.com/mastermind. Again, that is ChrisLecordo.com/mastermind.
 All right, folks, let's talk about how we can get freedom from the lies and start believing the truths.
 So weekly action steps. The first thing you have to do is stop believing the lies. Yes, you have to
 actually fight and battle against those lies. So here's what I want you to do. Now, I want you to
 make a list of all the lies that you are believing that you tell yourself and all the lies that you've
 been told that you're believing. I'm not talking about lies that you were told, believed, and you haven't
 believed it for 10 years. I'm talking about the stuff right now. Some of you are going,
 well, Chris, how am I going to know if it's a lie? Trust me. Sit down and start processing and you
 will discover it. This is something again in every next-level life as we go through this process. We say
 here, spend 15 minutes on this right now in people fill up sheets because they've discovered
 so much stuff, so much negativity, so many lies. So I want you to write down, make a list of all the lies that
 you believe right now. And then, if they're not coming from you, if they're coming from somebody else,
 I want you to put the initials by it as well. So you can separate that out. What you'll discover is
 by far the bulk of the lies are going to be coming from you. And something that's good is,
 you will also start to see patterns that develop. You might have specific people who continue to
 tell you the same lines over and over and over again. If you do, we have a problem. Obviously, you are
 going to be the one with the most, but if you start to see that, hey, five of these lies keep coming
 from this person, my best friend, my mom, my dad, my grandmother, my, I don't know, my cousin,
 my leader, whoever it is, then you can start to see that there are some patterns that have developed.
 And this is a good idea to start putting in some very healthy boundaries. Not walls, not boundaries
 the people can bust through, but some healthy boundaries. The next list I want you to make is the
 list of why are you telling yourself this thing, right? Or why is this, you know, you may not know
 why somebody else is telling you and that's perfectly fine. But at least on the ones that you're
 telling yourself, write down the why. Why do I keep telling myself this? Why do I feel like a failure?
 Why do I feel like I'm, I'm always going to be fat? I'm never going to be able to be good enough for
 a boyfriend girlfriend. I'm never going to whatever the thing is, always get to the, I'm not smart enough.
 I'm not fast enough. I'm not whatever it is. Get to that. Why? Why are you telling yourself that?
 Right? Those why is down? Then I want you to start a new list. This is the list of truths.
 Write down all the truths in your life. Write them all out. Write down things that the truth is that
 God loves you, that you are important, that you're good enough to him, that the cross proves that
 that you're not a failure. Failure is a situation. It's not a person. And failure is your greatest
 teacher. If you're ready to learn from it. Write down all the things that battle that why.
 If you don't have a why because it's coming from somebody else, then write down the truth that
 battles that lie. You have to battle the lies with the truths. You have to spend time. Now here's one of the
 things that I have to do. So I've been battling lies in my brain for many, many years. In the early
 days when I first started doing this, it was tough. It took a while. It took a long periods of time.
 It might take me an hour to battle the lies with the truths, right? Till the freaking lie would go away.
 Nowadays, it doesn't take long at all. It can be 30 seconds. It can be sub five minutes. But it doesn't
 take long. But one of the things sometimes I have to do when the negative self talk really gets strong.
 When the lies really get strong is I have to actually shock my brain. Now some of you are going to
 convince yourself, oh, I don't have to do this. I don't just try it once and see what happens. So
 sometimes I will go knock it off. Stop that. All of you in self times go shut up. And what happens is it literally
 stops my the negative self talk in its tracks. But that's just the beginning. Because if you don't do
 anything past that, they will come right back. If it's really bad, I'll stop it immediately. And then what I'll
 do is I'll go into why am I telling myself this? Why am I experiencing this? What am I feeling?
 I'll go through all those pieces and then go, ah ha, here's the truth. And I will go truth, truth, truth, truth.
 I'll keep saying it until the lies, the negative self talk goes away. Go's away. I'll never forget after
 a breakup that I had in my life. I had some friends that invited me to a concert.
 And immediately, immediately, I knew these friends. And they invited me to the concert the day of
 the concert. There's only a few hours to go, which was not normal for them. Usually there was, you know,
 they gave me a little bit of advance, right? When that situation happened, I remember immediately going into,
 you know what probably happened, they probably offered it to her. And they were going to take her
 and then probably something fell through. And so now I'm choice number two. And I started telling
 myself, these lies, have you ever experienced anything like that? I started telling myself these lies.
 And this probably went on for, I don't know, probably about five minutes until finally I went knock it off.
 You have absolutely no perspective. You don't know if that's truth. And so what if it is truth?
 These are people that are being friends to both of us, knock it off. That's stupid.
 If you want to go to the concert, go to the concert, but stop worrying about that and stop
 telling yourself that, especially when you have zero perspective whatsoever. That right there,
 stop the negative self-talk. I was able to go onto the concert and have a blast at the concert,
 mainly because I wasn't telling myself any lies anymore. And because it was the Dooby Brothers.
 So very important thing. It was a great, great concert. So do not allow the negative self-talk to
 keep attacking you. Now one of the things, and I have to work this out even with my own team members sometimes.
 When they're learning like, when we get somebody comes on board, everybody on the team goes through
 next level of life. And there are times that they will be struggling with their own lies.
 And I will say, okay, what are you telling yourself? They're like, oh Chris, I'm battling.
 It's like, okay, what are you telling yourself? And I'll be like, I'm battling. And they'll get
 fresh out. I'm like, tell me right now, what are you telling yourself? I want you to say the words out loud.
 And they'll stop and they'll go, oh my gosh, I'm actually not saying anything. And that's
 what I'll say, okay, you're not battling. You're getting bludgeoned. So now go to the truths right now and
 say them over and over again until you win that battle. Now last thing to this is, if you are
 having people that are telling you lies in your life, when you discover this, one of the things you
 can want to do is go attack them. That is not going to actually help. The problem isn't that they're
 telling you the lies. The problem is that they don't understand even if they're cognizant that they're
 telling you a lie, they still don't understand the why. They understand the what? They don't understand
 the why. Most of people don't even understand the what in this situation. So don't go crazy and don't
 go beat them up. Instead, if you want, share this. You know, have a discussion with them. Share this episode
 with them. But make sure that you are really understanding all of us have a root system. Every single
 person has a root system, honor that and understand, again, hurt people, hurt people. So somebody's
 trying to hurt you. Understand that doesn't mean that you become their punching bag. It means that
 you actually put yourself in a more healthy place, more healthy position and you stop that from happening.
 Well, folks, to learn more about how to get this junk out of your life and be the strongest person you
 can be, make sure you check out our next level life. It's our two-day one-on-one confidential event
 where you discover your root system, replace your lies with truths and so so much more. So to learn
 more, go to christlickard.com/discover that's christlickard.com/discover and just start the process.
 Just get the information. Well, hopefully this has helped you today. Thank you for joining me.
 I hope it has served you well. I encourage you to subscribe, rate, review, and share the podcast to help
 more people join our community. As always, take this information, change your leadership,
 change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]