 Today you're going to hear from a phenomenal leader on how he's turned this team and leadership around.
 More on that coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardos Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are. Folks on the show today we have a very special guest.
 Patrick Devaro is a husband, a father, a leader of leaders and a medical professional.
 His leadership growth and its impact on his team and the business has been incredible to watch.
 Now I wanted to bring him on the show because there's a lot to learn from Patrick. He has been
 killing it as a leader. In the past year, he has opened another new business location and put a brand
 new leader in charge. He's grown his teams buy in. That's allowing him to raise up new leadership.
 The alignment on the team creating focus in the most important areas. And for him personally,
 there's less stress and overwhelm. He's been able to have high quality communication with this team
 and eliminate the things that are not important. So do me a favor, welcome to the show,
 Patrick Devaro. Patrick, welcome. Chris, thank you so much for having me. It's my pleasure to be here today.
 The piece that we missed out at the in the beginning here is what you just shared with me,
 which is the, hey, this is the killing the leadership crazy cycle office and Patrick moved his
 camera around his office and it's clean. Oh yeah, the papers are gone. The stuff is is gone.
 Talk about that a little bit. Oh Chris, so much clarity. You know, my office really had turned into
 a storage room. I really had been, you know, I work, I just kind of work wherever, you know, I don't really
 have, you know, a lot of dedicated office space, but I just killing leadership crazy cycle. One of the
 things that's taught in that lesson is you've got to get in there and just touch every piece of paper and
 get this place cleaned up and organized. And took, you know, about half a day and I've just got
 so much clarity and less stress already just thinking about not having to figure out where different
 papers are even though I kind of idea where everything was. You know, it was great to put hands on everything
 and get some clarity. And that's a thing that we talk about in that lesson is, you know, when I did this
 couple of decades ago, I tell people to take us out of it because it's going to take longer than you think.
 Did you think it would take you half a day? I thought it was going to take six hours. I had six hours
 blocked out for a minute and took me about three and a half. So you got to done even faster.
 Yep. Which is good. People think it's going to take, you know, 30 minutes to an hour. There's a possible way.
 No way. You know, so book a Saturday or book a day or something like that. And I remember,
 like I say, 20 years ago, I did this and I came in on Monday in the creativity in my brain.
 It was like I couldn't stop thinking. My brain was clear because I had gotten rid of all the
 stuff that was stuck in my subconscious. And that's just one of the many things we we talk about
 in there. But how more clear do you feel right now? I feel like I can do a whole lot more just in terms of
 productivity, just in terms of, you know, creativity. I just like you said, I just I feel just my brain's
 not having to filter through those things. Yeah. You know, one of the things I took away from the previous
 event and previous times I've seen the lesson is that the state of your desk represents the state of your
 mind. You know, even if you know where everything is, still it's your brain having to filter through it
 and not having to do that just feels so much better. Right. Absolutely. All right. So tell people what you
 do and where you are all that kind of fun stuff. I'm a pharmacist. We I am a president of
 family medical services and we own four retail pharmacies in the Birmingham area. We have one
 in Bessama, which is the one that I do manage one of those stores and that's the Bessama location
 as well as leading the company. So I'm involved in the day to day dispensing most every day
 in addition to leading the company. Our other locations are somewhat spread out. They're actually about
 45 miles or so apart except for our newest location, which we just opened last month,
 which is only about less than 10 miles away from me and so I'm there pretty often. But the other
 locations are a little bit more spread out. I've been with the company. I've been out of pharmacy
 schools since 2005 at 24 years old. I joined the company as a manager at our Bessama location.
 So all of a sudden I'm a dispensing pharmacist and leading people 24 just about to turn 25 when I
 started and I've been leading that location since 2006. Actually when we were afraid that
 Chris I've been managing since 2006. I've been leading since 2017. I had to kind of change my mind
 set around managing versus leading. But I've been managing a team since 2006 and then
 became the president of the company in 2017. And you have done a phenomenal job at that. It has been
 a blast watching you really grow into that leadership role and really take on the task of
 not just leading but also training leaders. So question for you. Why pharmacy?
 Well when I was 16 years old I needed some gas money. Started working in Eckerdrog and Florida.
 And was there for about a year and actually pretty much thought I was just going to follow my
 dad and his business, he's a financial planner. And I was there at Eckerd for about a year and I said I
 really, in this patient connection is really something special. You know, us communicating and teaching
 patients about how to use their medicine, how to be healthier, how to help family members who are
 overwhelmed with health concerns and medications. I saw that pretty early on. I said this is what I
 wanted to do. And so that led me to Stanford University here in beautiful Birmingham, Alabama.
 And I thought I was going to basically graduate and move back to Florida and work for Eckerd and
 got had a different plan there. And I stayed in Birmingham and met my wife and was able to
 to join this great organization. Since we're talking about leadership and you came out of pharmacy
 school, what did pharmacy school teach you about leadership? Most of what I learned in pharmacy school
 with leadership, I learned a little bit about it in student organizations, leading student organizations,
 but I wasn't really taught anything. You know, we, we, and all of the teaching that we had, the actual
 coursework had more to do with human resources and human resource management and labor laws and employment
 practices, things like that. So a lot of managing processes, a lot of those types of things, but
 no real, at least not in the curriculum of the pharmacy school, no real leadership teaching.
 Yeah, I think that's one of the, one of the toughest things and obviously, I mean, it would take so much
 more to add to the pharmacy school or, you know, for doctors, for lawyers, for, you know, all these different
 aspects of having that leadership side, but it's so difficult when folks leave and then you have
 people and it's like, okay, well, lead and your experience is anybody who's led you before that.
 So it makes it really difficult to know, okay, so this is what I know. I don't know what great
 leadership looks like yet and then trying to figure that out as you go. Now, what the limited leadership
 training when you got started, when did you realize that there was more that that leadership growth
 was needed and that you needed a better way to do things? I would say it was probably about two or three
 years before I took over as president. I started learning a little bit more actually started following
 youth in the entry leadership days on the podcast and read the book and read a lot of other things that
 that I thought would would help with leadership. I realized then that what I had been doing so far
 was just managing people, managing processes. I was decently good at solving problems as a manager,
 but usually once they became problems, basically, I was able to solve them. I wasn't able to
 lead in a direction where we could have other solve problems and work toward a common goal or vision
 and mix the problem solving easier. So just learning about all of these things through podcasts,
 through books, I said, there is, this is different. This is more to, I've been managing. This idea
 of leadership is just better and we need to be taking care of people who are taking care of our customers.
 I want you to be taking care of them the same way. You just said that when it became a problem,
 problem solving is something that you were able to do, right? Yes. That is an interesting thing
 that we find with a lot of leaders that are coming into the program or the processes is that they do
 a really good job at solving a problem. But again, until it gets to be that problem, it's that,
 okay, well, I guess I just do my thing. What did you find was like the biggest challenge in being a leader
 at that time? At that time, what I found out was that there was a huge deficit in our communication
 as a team. By the time I was getting the problems coming to me, they were already full blown,
 three alarm, five alarm fires, instead of having one on one time with the team, focused time with
 them to ask questions and work through things. I think if I had done that early on, I would have avoided
 at least 75% of the problems I think I had to solve as a manager prior to learning about all this.
 It was just, again, putting out fires, putting out fires, putting out fires, and realizing that
 with just some better communication with more focused proactive time to ask questions, to see how things
 are going as opposed to waiting until it becomes an issue and blows up. And what's worse, Chris,
 is that when that did happen, my default response usually was, I would put the fire out,
 but before the fire got too bad, I was hoping it would just go away. I put my head down and
 okay, they just don't get along. They're just, they just never got along. And we're taking care of
 our customers and we're making money, so it's okay. I'm just going to put my head down in a,
 it'll magically fix itself. And then it would just blow up and just not a good way to lead.
 So going to school for a pharmacy, but not for fighting fires. Right. Exactly.
 You become a professional fire fighter. That's right. After I go to a pharmacy school,
 it is amazing how much. And I think, again, it's actually a great thing that you know how to solve
 the problems. But like you said, 75% of these issues probably could have been solved in a different way.
 Absolutely. If you jumped on them, sooner, what answers did you need that you didn't have?
 I needed a way to lovingly guide people to doing the right thing. I know that sounds weird,
 but it's just, you know, when I was kind of learning about this stuff, when I first started reading
 about learning about, listening to your podcast and reading and doing these things, I'm like, well,
 let me just, I just got to figure out how to make this person get along with this person. I've got to
 figure out a way to get this person to do this thing over here. And that's what I thought I needed.
 And once I started digging in and once I started doing the reading, doing the work,
 learning, making time to do that in terms of personal growth and investing in that,
 I realized, yeah, this is not as simple as this is do this and get this result or do this with this person.
 And then all of a sudden these two people will magically walk arm and arm together and get along forever.
 You know, those were things I thought I needed to do and learn that there is just a completely
 much, much deeper set of things that need to be addressed and processes and communication,
 and vision, all of these things that need to really be in place before those things can be solved.
 And like you said, your desire was to have a loving way. Why that had you been used to
 either that or the opposite or what were you used to before that? I had worked for a couple of
 leaders that were very dominant and, you know, I actually wanted, in particular, that I burned
 out pretty quickly with, I was trying to try my best to not lead in that direction. But as you mentioned earlier,
 you know, when you're in this role for the first time at 24, 25 years old, you start automatically
 just leading the way that you've been led. And I recognized it, you know, but I wasn't really doing much
 about it. I was telling people what to do and then also putting my head down and hoping other
 problems would go away, which is also other other thing in leadership that I learned through a different
 later. And so really just knowing that I wanted to not have that result of burning people out of
 treating people like units of production, you know, I knew I wanted that early on. And I knew that
 I would have loyalty, I would have wonderful customer service, patient experiences, and just have a place
 for people enjoy coming to work as what I was trying to get. Yeah. So folks, listening to
 this, I want you to, I want you to hear this because the reason we have Patrick on today is because of how
 much he is implemented and how much he's done, because Patrick you've done such a phenomenal job
 with this process and jumping and doing this. And I think the thing that so many people struggle with.
 And I literally hear it from time to time is I'll have leaders that will say, why can't I just tell them
 to do this thing? Why do I have to hold their hand? How come they won't just do? And how come I can't get
 them? And there's all this like cognitive dissonance of what I'm paying them. They should just
 do stuff and then they cannot figure out after 10, 20 years of, you know, saying the same thing over and
 over and over again, why their business doesn't change, why they still have these problems.
 You had realized, well, there's no point in standing here going, why can't I get them to do
 their thing? I have to do something about it. Correct? As correct. And so how did your team respond
 when you started making changes? Was there pushback to the accepted? How did that go?
 It was a little bit of pushback. Honestly, the people that were that I thought would be most
 combative with it, I guess, is a good way to say it, actually found the door on their own. So most of
 the people that were not ready to embrace any changes I was making. And I was pretty upfront about the things
 the direction we were going to try to go. They were actually we were going, not trying to go. We were
 going there. And different things that were going to change in terms of our culture, especially
 within this location. And they found the door themselves. I didn't have to worry about removing
 anybody. And so we got our team down to a group of people that were excited that were bought in
 that said this is great. I wish we had done this years ago. I have one team member, Chris, who's been
 with me with first-person I hired. I hired a 12 years ago after one of the people that I originally was
 managing, left. And she and I have always had a good open dialogue. And she said to me when we
 started putting this process in place, you know, you were just so less stressed. And she actually said
 these words to me recently, because I feel like we've gotten the old Patrick back. Because we have
 put this process. And some of that was team members leaving the needed to leave. And some of it was
 now I'm, I've got a team that's bought in. I've got a team that is loving on each other, loving on
 people. And taking care of people the way that we're supposed that we set out to do from the beginning.
 That is a big thing. And I know you've been mentioning that that you've felt less stressed out.
 How much more from your side looking at the team looking at the growth, you know, how, you know, where they are
 now, how much more are you able to go, okay, I don't have to be stuck to this business 24/7.
 I don't have to be worrying about things. I've got teams, you know, I've got people that are taking
 care of things. How what does that look like now? Well, it is unbelievably fantastic. I'm still here
 a bit bit, but I'm not worried when I'm not here about the patients not being taken care of or
 processes not being followed or these these things now, it's just DNA, you know, they're taking care of
 people, they're communicating with each other. Most importantly, that was something we had to really
 work on was our internal team communication. It is making sure that we're not competing with each other.
 We're helping each other. We're here for the patient. We're trying to get to this result that we're
 trying to get to. And I hired a good friend of mine actually. I mean, we go back 20 years and she started
 with me in April. I was concerned, you know, we had both had been concerned prior to her starting that
 it was going to be some issues with me being her quote unquote leader boss, you know, whatever.
 She came in and pretty early on and even just in the interview process could see this culture within
 this communication and this culture within our location within our store. And you know, she said,
 I'm not worried about it now. I want to. I want this. And now between her and the rest of my team,
 when I'm not here, even right now, I'm not worried at all about what's going on in the pharmacy next
 store because it's just it's getting done with excellence and we're taking care of each other.
 And one thing I'll share. So Jennifer, who's the pharmacist that I hired that she and I go back 20 years
 even before pharmacy school, at least up for hours in pharmacy school, her best friend passed away this
 morning. And I said, you know, of course, you know, whatever we've got to do, we will make sure
 this is we're here for you. We know where she is. We know where Suzanne is at a different
 in the past away. But it is something that was automatic in the culture now with our team and with me today.
 When this happened, we have a team huddled beginning of the week every week and we had it today. And we talked
 about it and we prayed and we're not worried about if Jen has to be gone for a couple days this week or not.
 I mean, we the automatic responses we've got her taken care of. We will lift her up. We will
 figure this out. We're not even thinking about how we're going to have to do. We'll get the pharmacy covered.
 And I think the old way, if I had been managing the old way, now that I wouldn't be in a loving place
 right now with this, what I'd be panicking, what am I going to do? How am I going to get this taken care of?
 Who am I going to staff the pharmacy with? Because my weeks already booked. What am I going to do?
 I haven't done any of that today, Chris. And my team has never, because they're just like,
 we've got this. We've got this taken care of. We're going to get this figured out.
 And even if I hadn't been here today, they'd have figured this out. Gosh, so much there, because
 first off, it shows your heart because even back before you had put the stuff in place,
 you're taking care of Jennifer. There are leaders out there that are so crazy, caught, stuck in the
 leadership, crazy cycle. I've literally heard team members that have said, I left that business because
 you know, I lost a grandparent. You know, I had to go to the funeral and I was told I couldn't go.
 And it's like, how, how in the world, or I always ask a question, do you know why they said that?
 And the answer was because we're too busy. And I'm like, there you have it. Now, it could just be
 somebody who has no heart. It was a possibility, but I would assume that they would have left before that.
 But, you know, I love that you're, hey, you would have taken care of Jennifer no matter what,
 but where you guys are now, when something a crisis like this comes up for an individual,
 it's not a crisis for the team. You're a care of Jennifer and you can take care of business,
 because you know, I've been doing this for almost 30 years, you know, in a few years,
 it'll be 30 years I've been leading. And one of the things that I've always had to share with my team is we will always,
 you know, somebody has an emergency or something. We're going to take care of a team member,
 but the clients don't know that that happened. And you don't go around and telling all the clients,
 hey, we had somebody who had, you know, who lost a loved one and they're taking time off. Therefore,
 we're going to, you know, mess up your stuff right now. The client doesn't care because they don't know what happened.
 And you know, since you're not going to go advertise it, you have to solve, you have to take care,
 you have to, you know, get people in the right places, take on somebody's work that they were going to do.
 And so another thing I love is that, you know, like you just shared, your team didn't,
 it wasn't even a question. They know that they're going to take care of Jennifer and that's just powerful.
 So I'll, I'll love that. I've got the leadership team, we all want to Israel last year.
 For we were gone for two weeks straight. And I had so many people when we got back that are like,
 hey, how many fires did you have to put out? And it's like, well, none.
 Like you got to be kidding. I'm like, no, we do the stuff we teach. And so we literally had fires.
 I think I handled one email, my other leaders handled a couple. And that was literally it in two weeks.
 Now when we got back, we had a bunch of emails that we had to go through zero fires.
 There's no stress, there's no fears. I have a solitude. And the thing I shared with him is,
 is like, you know, we literally do the stuff that we teach. It's not just me. It's the leadership team
 does this. It's the team members that do this. So if something happens, I'm not worried about
 this team taking care of it. And if there was an absolute emergency, then they would get to me.
 And we would take it from there. So I'm so proud of you for getting down the road in this journey
 of being able to, you know, not stress 24/7. And it carries over into family, you know. And I actually
 share one more thing about this crazy cycle and the killing it because we're going on a cruise
 in a couple of weeks. And my plan right now is to, this is tough, but I'm going to do it.
 Literally leaving my smartphone in Birmingham. Not taking it in the car, not taking it anywhere near.
 And I'm going to buy a $10 flip phone that someone can call me only if the building is on fire.
 But I'm not going to answer messages and emails. I'm going to live in the moment with these three
 kids and my family. And if I had to do that, if I had not kind of put these things in place over the last
 couple of years. I mean, I'd rather love it. I'm so happy about that. So some folks are out there
 listening to this gun. Okay. Well, you had some pushback, but I'm worried about this. Like,
 you know, if I put this stuff in the Patrick's doing and all this stuff that Chris teaches, what if I
 get pushback or, you know, what would you say to the leaders that are worried about pushback or how to
 make it successful? One of the things I would focus on is you're going to get some pushback. There's
 absolutely no way around. But I think a lot of this and this is kind of touching on some
 next level of life stuff too. You know, I think we have this dissipated response that there's going to
 be pushback or maybe. But then some of the people that you don't get put on, they're like,
 that I thought we're going to do some pushback were, oh, this is a better way to do it. This is great.
 You know, I wish we had had this pretty before. I think as long as it's explained well,
 and you're very reasonable about implementation as far as what you're going to put in. Like,
 there's no, every single thing is taught into place on day one. It slowly,
 folds and deciding what is reasonable to get in place. But also realize that any pushback that you
 get if it's explained and led well, you are the leader. You are supposed to cast it as you and
 you are supposed to, you know, lead the team in the direction of excellence that you're supposed to be going.
 As long as you're focused on that and you're clear on that and everything you're doing is moving
 toward that. Any pushback that you get is going to be minimal. And when you do get pushback,
 that's like really like brick wall in moveable object type of pushback, then you have to make a decision
 as to whether or not that person really is going to be part of this vision and this better way of
 doing things that makes everyone's lives both in and out of the company that this company touches better.
 We've had a lot of leaders that have come through that can't stand conflict. You don't,
 you don't love conflict. I know. We've had some high S, high C folks. If you've not done your disc profile,
 do it, get it done. That have come through and as we've cast a vision for them to go back and put things
 in place, that was a big fear is the well, I already know some people that are going to push back hard.
 And the one thing that I've always shared with them is this goes into your vision casting.
 Hey, we're moving in this direction. So either you're on board with us or you're not. If you're not,
 we're going to love you. And we will help you to find another place if this just isn't your thing.
 But we're going in this direction. So I expect it. And the amazing thing is like you shared,
 there will sometimes be one or two people that are just like, I don't want to.
 I like to take an advantage of the system before. I liked the big able to lay blame on somebody else and
 not take responsibility and they opt out. And like you said, it's you never want to see people go.
 There's never a time. It feels good to lose a team. But there are many times when it feels
 really good to not have to go solve those fires. Right. You know, we're have to push this person
 again on the same thing. So I think that's super powerful. So do me a favor, describe to me
 in three words. Your leadership five years ago, describe to me in three words, your leadership today.
 In five years ago, I would say, reactive, very much reactive, firefighting, reactive, fire
 fighting, I was kind of the same. I'll just say cluttered, not just physically cluttered, mentally cluttered.
 I think is where it was just because we really didn't have a defined communication structure
 and a defined mission of vision. Now it's clear, it's organized, it is purposeful. That's a big one,
 purposeful. And my role is changed a little bit. Actually, it changed a good bit to where I'm
 you know, only fighting fires, only solving these problems. And now it's now I get to do building up other
 leaders and putting out stand and we are companies blessed with fantastic leadership across our
 stores and really fantastic. But getting to teach this, not just to get things off my plate, not just
 to just be delegating things, but to have this kind of be part of the DNA within our culture, even in
 the out all the locations that we have is what it is now. So I would say clear, focused and definitely purposeful.
 I love it. So from all the stuff that you've learned in the last few years, what is one piece of
 advice you want to leave with our listeners who are leaders? There is a lot more carryover from
 your personal life and your root system into leadership than you think. Chris, I've been following
 you for a long time. And I was kind of in denial that there was any, I just want to learn the business
 stuff. Let me learn the business stuff. Just tell me what to do with this problem. Tell me what to do with
 these people. And didn't take long and me being a part of the program that I was like, I really have to
 figure out why I do that thing right there. Why do I do this? Why do I avoid this? I've got to figure
 that out. And so be open-minded in your learning that different things that have affected you throughout
 your life, you refer to it as the root system. That's the best way I know to put it. All of those things
 affect your leadership. Everything that you've been through both as a, as someone and work and in your
 personal life affect your leadership. And you've got to be ready to embrace it and learn about it and get
 perspective if you really want to continue to grow. We just did the next level leadership,
 live of it. And this one was one that we tied in next level life, information routes, system stuff into
 the leadership stuff. And whenever we do that specific event, which we do, I think about every three
 years or so, it's always amazing to me to watch people, you know, I'll come up the stage. And I'm never
 going to be, unless God changes something up, I'm never going to be the raw rock guy. I'm never going to be
 the guy who you come to because my events are so motivating and you're on a high for a couple of weeks and
 then you're back to normal. I'm always going to be the guy who helps you to get deep change and all that
 kind of fun stuff. So getting out the stage and coming by and talking with folks and they're just like
 man, this is just really hitting me in a painful place, you know, or in a, hey, this is really
 exciting me because of, I can go do these things. I think that's, I'll never get used to that. You know,
 I know it because I'm teaching it. This is what you need, but it is so great to be able to step off the stage.
 You know, we just see people shaking their heads on a Charlotte Miller. If you're listening,
 Charlotte shout out to you, just walk in by and I'm like, well, how you do it? She just shake it
 her head and she's like, man, I've needed this for a long time and just powerful stuff. So if you could
 go back and sign to a young Patrick, and it could be on anything, what would you tell him?
 Lead don't manage. Lead, you know, cast vision, the folks that you're leading will follow you with that vision.
 If it's, if they're going to be part of it, they're going to follow it. And as a young Patrick,
 as a young manager, I lead, you know, I said, I've managed to process as I manage to this
 thing here. Let's get the product to the patient. There's a better way to do this. And I wish,
 you know, I had started this early on in my even before I was present in the company, you know, just in just
 in leading that team. If I could just do that earlier, if I could just and understand the different aspects
 of my personality that affect it and do all of those things, I wish I would have started that at
 25 instead of, you know, 35. Yeah, no doubt. Well, brother, thank you so much for sharing all this
 information. I really appreciate it. My pleasure sir. And I cannot wait to hear how the cruise goes.
 I got a chance to meet that pack of yours. What was that about eight nine months ago?
 Yeah, one longer. Yeah. So I'm excited for you. So that I have, I thought I was done with
 questioning you, but I have one more how long ago, how long has it been since you've been able to
 do a family vacation like this and not take, you know, not take a smartphone and not have to worry about
 stuff. 2008. That was my honeymoon. And that was just because we didn't have, I don't think I had a
 smartphone. Yeah. It would not have been a smart thing to take that on your honeymoon. You are absolutely right.
 Well, good. It is definitely due. It is definitely due. Thanks again Patrick. I really,
 really appreciate it. Your thanks. Thanks for having me. Well, folks, if you want to join businesses and
 leaders like Patrick and learn how to grow your leadership and business to develop yourself as a
 leader, you can check out crslicrido.com/mastermind. That's crslicrido.com/mastermind and get started on
 this path to changing your leadership and not just your leadership, but my gosh, they're stress.
 Being able to go on a family vacation and not stress. That's why we do what we do. That's why we teach
 what we teach. All right, folks. Well, hopefully this was helpful to you. Thank you for joining me today.
 I hope it's served you well. I encourage you to subscribe, rate, review, and share the podcast
 to help more people join our community. As always, take this information, change your leadership,
 change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]