 Today, we're going to be talking about how to use your past experiences to shape your future
 and my personal story coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardos Show, where we discussed leadership and life and discover
 that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 That's always like all those words are like one long word.
 Welcome to the show.
 It's like four words that are just one long word.
 We need to put a mic on you so you can everybody can hear you over there with your
 little giggle.
 Folks, welcome.
 So glad you're here.
 That is Heather I'm talking to.
 Who is my producer over there?
 This in from Brian, he says, bro, just want to thank you
 again for what you do and the impact it has had on me personally.
 You are in my online mentor list of people who I respect and admire and who have input
 into me through the digital world.
 So thank you.
 Thank you, Brian.
 A few years back, I stopped by the office and Nashville with some GGs cupcakes.
 Oh my gosh, GGs cupcakes.
 Those are the cupcakes where the frosting is taller than the actual cupcake.
 And he brought some of those by.
 And you are gracious enough to spend a little time with me over some great coffee with
 Joel and Keith.
 I told you that I was thinking in 36 months of quitting my job and launching into my own full-time
 gig.
 And 36 months later, that's what I did.
 It has been a crazy 22 months so far.
 And I'm learning so much as an entrepreneur.
 And I had been trying to capture all the lessons in feedback.
 I'm learning from so many places.
 Thanks, Chris.
 Blessings to you, Brian.
 Well, Brian, thank you, my friend.
 I'm so glad you did get to stop in.
 And that was a joy to have you here.
 So thanks for that.
 Thanks for the gift of the cupcakes.
 And thank you for the gift of letting us know how things are going and how we are having
 an impact in your life.
 We appreciate that and we're praying for you, brother.
 Hope everything goes incredibly well.
 Folks, if you've got something to say, feel free to say it.
 I don't think you can digitally send cupcakes, but that's fine.
 You can send a digital comment to podcast at christlicker.com.
 Feel free.
 There's things you want to let us know or things you want to say or questions you have or
 whatever.
 Feel free.
 Today's quote, "Every decision we make either moves as closer to success in life or father away
 from it."
 Who said that, Heather?
 That one thing you know.
 That is me.
 So today we are talking about making stronger decisions for your future by learning from your
 past.
 How to use something that we use in our next level of life events.
 Now I'm always trying to bring you guys great information that you can use today.
 Stuff that you can do something with today.
 And obviously the thing that I'm going to share with you usually takes us hours for us to
 work through an individual's what we call core impacts.
 This is a vital part of what we do in next level of life.
 I'm going to give you something that you can use this week when it comes to core impacts.
 It's an important part of us discovering some of the things that have impacted and caused
 well for us.
 It's a huge part when we pull our whole event together to a huge part of that shows us how we
 make decisions.
 Because we make good decisions.
 We make bad decisions.
 The way that I believe we make decisions is we make decisions from our influences from our
 past, from our root system.
 Those things that are buried down in our root system, maybe we understand it, maybe we don't.
 Maybe it is something that because we don't understand it, we're making tons of bad decisions.
 Or maybe we're getting stuck because we don't understand how to deal with those things.
 And core impacts is one of those pieces that we use, one of the many, to help people to get
 unstuck, to help people to get out of overwhelmed, to help people to get past junk with
 family members, to help people get past junk with bad relationships, whatever it is.
 And we help them to see things in the past.
 Now, here's what I always say.
 If I'm explaining to somebody about what we do, it's an interesting thing.
 People say what do you do?
 If I shared the what side of it, then people would always say the same thing.
 Oh, I know what happened in my life.
 Well, yeah, you do.
 The what's actually not the thing that holds people back.
 We think it is.
 We think that we make bad decisions are good decisions based on the what, the what that we can
 see, the what that we can understand.
 We call that surface level.
 And all of the tons of people that have been through next level of life are all not in their head
 right now going, oh my gosh, if you could only see my list of surface level responses.
 The surface level responses are the things that we do because of the deposits in our
 soil that we pull up and throw roots just to into our fruit.
 Next our fruit good, bad, ugly, fantastic, whatever it is.
 It affects us immensely.
 And we have these surface level responses, not because of the what?
 Here's the funny thing.
 If you've got some, for those of you that have ever known somebody who's had a problem with
 drugs or had a problem with alcoholism or whatever, fill in the blank, when you talk to them
 in the midst of their struggle and the amidst of, in the midst of their addiction, if you were
 to say to them, hey, you're killing yourself and you're killing your family, stop it.
 They would go, yeah, I know I am.
 Well then why don't you stop?
 And the answer truly is because I don't know how.
 If you dig deeper what you would find is, why are you doing it?
 I don't know.
 It's not just for a high, I can promise you that.
 That's a numbing process.
 It's a need.
 It's something that they are using to overcome something else in their life.
 What is that something else?
 The something else is something that they don't know how to deal with.
 That they don't know how to respond to it.
 So instead, that you use otherwise.
 Guess what?
 Procrastination is a surface level response.
 Not dealing with junk is a surface level response.
 You look at the big, we think, oh, well look at drug addiction.
 That's huge.
 All that's, those are people with problems really.
 Hey, go look in the mirror.
 Sorry, but yeah, there's probably things that you're doing to numb from other things that
 you don't know how to deal with, that you don't know what to do with.
 And we choose those surface level responses until we discover what we call the "why".
 Why does that exist?
 Why did that happen?
 Not the what?
 People can point out the what.
 And that's why the thing that we're going to talk about today is something that you're able,
 you're going to be able to go into some of the stuff here and actually start to make some changes.
 Because you are aware of many of the what's.
 The key is to get to that "why"?
 Why does it exist?
 So one of the things that we use is what we call core impacts.
 Those core impacts are things that have happened in your life.
 It can be something that you've done.
 It can be something that happened to you.
 But these are things that were so core.
 It had such an impact in your life that it changed a belief system in you.
 It changed the direction of your life.
 It changed the way that you interact with people.
 It changed the way that you trust or distrust or whatever.
 This impact was so impactful, this impact was so great that it is something that changed your life in some way shape or form.
 So how I kind of explain this is a core impact isn't if you break your arm.
 That's an impact.
 That sucks.
 It hurts.
 It's painful.
 It's terrible.
 But eventually you're going to heal and you're going to get over it.
 And then you will move on.
 If you're a concert pianist and you break your arm in six places and you never get to play the piano ever again,
 then that's a core impact.
 That's something that impacted you so negatively that it changed your life.
 If you are having a somewhat normal life, which there's no such thing as a normal life,
 so that's kind of ridiculous.
 But if you are experiencing life and everything is fine, and then somebody takes something from you.
 Like maybe a rape or a molestation or somebody abuses you in a horrible, horrible way.
 Then guess what?
 That is a life changing.
 That's a life defining moment that will affect you until you get some help from somebody who knows
 actually how to help you.
 That kind of stuff.
 That is the kind of thing that would be a core impact in your life.
 What other core impacts are there?
 There are great core impacts.
 There's all kinds of stuff that are positive core impacts.
 It could be something like salvation.
 There are many times probably, I don't know, 25% of the time that folks are coming through
 next level of life that that is such an impactful moment in somebody's life that it changed
 their life.
 Obviously, salvation changes your life.
 But a lot of folks are grown up in the church and so it's just a progression of what they're
 doing.
 Some folks, it was a point of crisis.
 It was made such a huge impact because it changed their life forever.
 These are just some examples of core impacts that you've probably experienced in your life.
 We see all kinds of stuff, guys.
 I can't tell you, we see great core impacts.
 We have some folks that come through and they have just a handful of core impacts.
 That life growing up was very normal for them.
 There wasn't any, you know, some people will sit there and as we're going through their life.
 They're like, I feel like I should have more.
 We've already done enough digging to discover that life was normal up until a specific time
 in their life.
 Maybe their childhood was just there wasn't any core impacts.
 There was anything big.
 There's no point enforcing something to be there if it didn't actually happen.
 Then as you get into adulthood, that's when you start to see some of the bigger ones.
 Then we have folks that it's exact opposite.
 There are horrible, terrible core impacts in their lives.
 There are painful, painful moments that they've experienced.
 And by the way, the reason why people are able to discuss all of these things is because
 with us, it's safe.
 There's no judgment here.
 Period.
 Zero.
 There's no point.
 There's no need to judge people.
 We know why people do what they do.
 And we understand the root system.
 What we teach, it's the foundation of what we do.
 We understand why people do what they do.
 So there's no point of judging somebody in a process.
 Instead, the point is to help them to get free from the junk.
 We will have some folks that will come through that have terrible, terrible things.
 I have helped many people that have come through, like I say, guys and girls that have
 come through a molestation.
 I'm in that have come through a rape.
 There's all kinds of junk back in there.
 People that have been through abuse that for most of you listening, you would just be shocked
 to understand what somebody has experienced.
 You would be shocked, it would be surprising.
 For some of you, it's you.
 You've experienced it and you've never had a safe place that you could actually talk about it.
 So it could be, you might have some big core impacts in your life.
 I'm pretty positive that you do.
 And the thing is, is that not understanding those surface-level responses, those are all self-sabotage.
 People have these responses like control, like submission, like procrastination, like addictions,
 like protection from others, like having to be, you know, anger issues, like you've,
 there's so many, there's a ton.
 And those all come out in self-sabotage.
 I'm trying to protect me.
 Nobody else is.
 I have to take care of me.
 I don't understand why I am where I am or why things are happening the way that they are.
 I just know what's happened.
 And so my only recourse is to protect me.
 And it changes the way you view the world.
 It changes the way you view people.
 It changes the way you view God.
 One of my favorite moments in what we do is when somebody realizes the need for God, because
 that happens as well, or when somebody has had a vision of God that was based on just jacked
 up situations that man has created in their life.
 And through this process, they get to see God in a completely different way.
 When you have surface-level responses, when you have situations that are brought on by
 core impacts and you don't know how to deal with them.
 And you don't even understand them.
 It changes the way you view the world.
 It absolutely changes your decision-making process.
 It creates your decision-making process.
 If you've been hurt by people, if you've been hurt by family members, if you've not been able
 to trust mom, dad, siblings, friends, relationships, if you've not been able to trust
 guess what, it changes the way you make decisions.
 You become more guarded, you'll build walls like crazy.
 It changes the way you see people.
 So for those of you that don't know, I was raised in Lake Tahoe.
 I was raised in a small town named Trucky.
 And it was a fantastic place to grow up as a boy.
 Had it's great, good parts.
 Had it, it's bad parts.
 But one thing that I got to do is, and I can tell you one of the great things is you learn
 how to work.
 You grow up in a mountain town.
 It's amazing to see how much the people who come from a mountain town and come from the town
 where I'm from learned how to work.
 The work ethic was phenomenal.
 Because that's what you learn.
 You always shovel and snow.
 You always drop in trees.
 You always doing something to learn how to work.
 You bust it.
 You don't have a problem, busting it.
 And one of those areas that I loved to bust it in was skiing.
 I was a racer growing up.
 As many of the kids were in my town.
 Many of us were racers.
 And we raised all over the place.
 Downhill.
 For me, my biggest, my best disciplines were giants,
 Solomon, super giants, Solomon.
 We did downhill, but it wasn't as big back in those days.
 I'm a little old.
 For me, my goal, when I, so I have two core impacts in my life around the same subject.
 One of them is a very positive impact.
 The very day we got skis.
 The very day we got skis we were out skiing.
 And even in vit, it was on Christmas day.
 I'll never forget waking up and going out into the living room and seeing these skis
 leaning up against the wall.
 Now here's the thing.
 I'm that guy who, I don't want to know the surprise.
 My brother, the kind of guy who would steam off the tape.
 So he could see what was inside there and then tape it back up.
 Yes, that's that was my brother.
 Me, I'm the guy, I don't want to know.
 Like people are always like, well, I don't want you to know your surprise.
 Don't worry, I don't want to know either.
 I enjoy the surprise.
 I enjoy seeing what the gift is.
 I walked out, I saw these skis leaning up against the wall.
 And I felt bad.
 I remember running back to my bedroom like I had done something wrong.
 That was just a look at.
 Because I had seen the skis.
 I could tell what they were.
 They were very loosely wrapped and they looked like skis.
 And so it was such an exciting day that we got out.
 We were skiing around.
 We were down at this clubhouse where we lived and they were having a small little race,
 a small little hillside.
 And they were like, hey, come get the result.
 I'll listen, we're just messing around.
 And this guy kept talking.
 It's Christmas day.
 He's like, listen, we're not giving out any trophies.
 Everybody's just having fun.
 Just come do this thing.
 And we got in the race and I won.
 I beat a kid who'd been skiing for many years.
 It was the craziest thing.
 I remember the guy who put it on going, you need to be on the ski team, which very quickly,
 I was on the ski team.
 My brother and I were both on the ski team.
 And so here we are now.
 The first year was not.
 It was not like that little race on the side of a hill.
 Trust me.
 We didn't really win a lot.
 I think overall on the team, I think I came in third place.
 In my, we were broken up by age groups.
 And I think that was a, I'm not even sure if I got third place.
 I think that was a gift.
 I think it was probably more like fourth place.
 Anyways, over the next year, that's when winning started really happening.
 And I started winning a lot more and a lot more.
 So all this is just something that's fun, that's happening.
 Until one day my coaches start talking about the Olympics.
 And saying that's a very real possibility.
 This became a core impact of my life because that's what I wanted.
 And so our goal was to ski in the 88 Olympics, which would have been in Canada.
 And back in those days, there were no sponsorships.
 We were amateurs, amateurs, and the Olympics couldn't have sponsorships.
 You couldn't, you had to pay your way.
 Well, I didn't know anything about this.
 I'm just a kid.
 I don't really understand what's going on.
 I just know that I'm going to be skiing in the 88 Olympics.
 And that's going to be my goal.
 I'll never forget the day.
 I was at my buddy's house.
 And we were outside just screwing around.
 And I think we were doing what we were called pole flips.
 You plant your ski poles and flip over and just have him fun outside.
 And the conversation came up about the Olympics.
 Now we're a couple of teenage boys.
 And he had just gotten on the team.
 His parents had paid.
 I did not know that you had to pay for it.
 I thought you're just great.
 And so they take you on.
 And I was considerably better than the person I was talking with.
 And I was winning all the time all around.
 And I found out what the price was.
 And I knew that there was no way my single mom was going to be able to pay for this.
 And so sure enough, we weren't able to afford it.
 That is when the second core impact around this one subject in my life happened.
 I gave up.
 Period.
 I gave up skiing.
 I stopped skiing.
 I stopped watching the Olympics for 10 years.
 I gave up skiing and watching the Olympics.
 I was hurt.
 I went and hung around with kids.
 I shouldn't have been hanging around with.
 And it didn't impact me in such a negative way because I didn't get to do the thing that I wanted
 to do.
 I didn't get to do the thing that I dreamed about.
 What seemed like my whole life and still I was just a teenager.
 But it was a big dream in my life.
 And so I had this positive core impact of, oh my gosh, this is going to be my life.
 Not just a, oh, that's an exciting thought.
 It was no, that's going to happen.
 My brother and I wanted to be the next mayor brothers.
 There's probably three of you listening to this, who know what I just said.
 We are goal was to do that.
 He was a slow, my brother was more of a slalom skier.
 I was the giant slalom and superge skier.
 And so this was our goal.
 Our goal was to be those guys in the Olympics.
 And it just didn't happen because we couldn't afford it.
 Now in 92, guess what they allowed.
 They allowed sponsorships.
 I was a little bit like, but I had been so hurt that I had made a stupid decision in my life.
 It took 10 years, 10 years later, one day I said, what in the world are you doing?
 You gave up something you loved so greatly because you couldn't go and do the thing that
 you were dreaming of doing?
 Why did you give it up?
 Why did you lose all of this time?
 Almost overnight, I decided to get back out on the hill.
 And I did.
 And I was able to actually go the very day I got back out on the hill.
 I got into a public race.
 There was a public race there.
 And so I was able to get the best time.
 And it was powerful for me.
 The excitement.
 Now it took me a little bit to get back going.
 But it's about if I could took me a lot to get back going.
 So by the, I think, I don't know, about two thirds throughout the day.
 I was putting down the fast times.
 And it changed my life.
 I was back.
 I was excited.
 Obviously, it's too late now.
 This point for me to become anything of it.
 I wasn't going to go to the Olympics.
 I wasn't going to, it was gone.
 But so what?
 Something so simple is that no, some of you are going, oh, what's the big deal?
 Well, let me say that there is a mindset that comes along with the thought of being an Olympic
 anything.
 And that mindset is one of desired discipline, desired focus, desire to go and tackle something
 huge.
 It's not just a small thing.
 This isn't just going and playing a pickup game on the basketball court.
 This was a big deal.
 For two B and Olympian is a big deal.
 It's a big process.
 It's a big commitment in life.
 And so it's something that I wanted.
 I wanted that commitment.
 And it was not able to get there.
 So for me, and have I had much more impactful situations, much bigger core impacts in my life
 than this, absolutely.
 I've got a lot of, much bigger, more painful core impacts in my life.
 Trust me on that.
 There are.
 But this is one of those that I could show you both sides.
 It had a good core impact in my life because my life was now going in another direction.
 My belief system said changed.
 And then my belief system's really tanked afterwards.
 When I realized I couldn't get there.
 That type of thing affected a decision.
 It affected my decision making process that I chose to do, hang out with people I shouldn't
 have.
 Yeah, I was hanging out with other kids that I shouldn't have been hanging out with.
 I didn't go do anything bad.
 I'm, that's just never been me.
 It's, I still, I wasn't going after great fantastic things in life during those years.
 And instead I just became somebody who didn't care anymore.
 I became somebody who didn't believe.
 I became somebody who lost a lot of hope.
 I became somebody who made bad decisions.
 One of those things was the decision to remove something I absolutely loved in my life because
 I was going to protect me.
 Forget all I'm not going to watch that.
 So I'm not going to watch the Olympics.
 Those are, that's hurtful and that's painful.
 I'm not going to go skiing because I can't go and be in the, come on.
 That was my decision making process.
 It was a dumb one.
 Imagine what kind of decisions you've made when you have had your trust
 broken by people around you.
 Imagine what kind of decisions you make when friends hurt you when you're close friends but
 try you.
 Imagine what kind of decisions you make when you've been abused.
 Imagine what kind of decisions you make when leaders or people that you authorities that
 you trust destroy your trust.
 Imagine how that impact your decision making process.
 It affects it greatly.
 It changes the way you look at life and it can lead to some pretty bad force to have it
 thinking I can't trust anybody.
 I can't trust people.
 I have to protect myself from all people.
 I have to build walls and never let people in.
 I have to hurt people before they hurt me.
 I can't trust God.
 God surely can't be in control of my life.
 Look at how liquid he's allowed to happen.
 And so I can't trust him.
 I have to be the one in control.
 I believe I am in control.
 Folks controls an illusion.
 But I have to be the one who's in control because look at how much all of these things have
 hurt me.
 And so people make really bad decisions.
 I'm not going to love somebody really well because I've been hurt by so many people in the past
 that instead I'm going to protect myself like crazy.
 I'm not going to allow myself to be loved and I'm not going to love really well.
 I'm going to make decisions that affect me and I think I'm protecting myself.
 But instead I'm really hurting myself.
 All of these things that I've just described are all surface level responses.
 These are all things that we do because we don't know how to deal with the thing.
 We don't know how to deal with the thing that is in our root system and affecting us so badly.
 So here's what I want you to do.
 We have an action step for you.
 And again, there's so much more in the process of next level life.
 But here's something you can do right now.
 It's a two step exercise.
 It's the core impact identifier exercise.
 This is something you can do right now that can help you.
 It's a two step exercise and you can gain perspective on your past so you can shape your future.
 The first thing I want you to do is I want you to identify your core impacts.
 Think back as far as you possibly can and write down the core impacts in your life.
 Now, you're not doing this to relive stuff.
 This is also another mistake that people make is that they think they're going to go back through and relive junk.
 The goal is not to relive emotional crap.
 Instead, it's to see how it's impacted you.
 Just to understand how it's impacted you.
 We're not here to make monsters of anybody.
 We're not here to make victims of you.
 That's not the goal.
 It's to understanding gain perspective.
 We actually take these impacts and we run them through seven different areas.
 And we discover the impacts in every single impact goes through seven different areas to see how it's impacted each one of those areas.
 But for you, we just want you to do this very easily.
 Go through and write down those core impacts.
 Good or bad.
 Now, keep on mind.
 It has to be something that impacted you so much that it changed the rest of your life.
 That has to be or a very large chunk of your life.
 It's not just an incident that was a big incident.
 It has to be something that impacted your life for a very long time or forever.
 Change to your belief system on things.
 Change the direction of your life.
 Whatever that is, go back as far as you can and only write down the things you can remember.
 Because there's one thing you'll find that there are plenty of people who will tell you about things that you have done or impacts that have happened in your life.
 You don't know anything about.
 But they will tell you that they are there.
 We're not looking for those.
 Those are things where people are trying to control your such a reality on stuff to make them feel better.
 That's not what we're looking for.
 We're looking for the things that you can remember that were impacts in your life.
 Now, most people on average, now listen, as I say on average, this doesn't mean that this is going to be you.
 It's on average.
 Have about eight to ten really big core impacts.
 I've had some people that have had five.
 I've had some people that have had 20.
 So it just depends.
 But on average, I think it's around the eight to ten marks.
 Probably around ten core impacts in somebody's life.
 Now, also, if you are listening to this in your 23 years old, you may not have ten core impacts.
 You may, you may not.
 If you're listening to this in your 55 years old, you're probably going to have more than ten impacts.
 Core impacts.
 So don't worry about that.
 Write that down.
 Step two is I want you to assess the impacts.
 Once you've written down every core impact to date and make sure it's been an impact.
 Like, one thing, almost every single person coming through next level of life will always write down next level of life.
 And it's like, well, you're going through it.
 It hasn't made the impact yet.
 So if there's something you're experiencing right now, but it hasn't made an impact.
 Don't write that one down.
 Write down all of your core impacts.
 And then I want you to just write down, pick one at a time, starting back with the earliest one.
 And write down how it's impacted your life.
 How did it affect you?
 How did it affect your life?
 So you can start to gain perspective on what that may have done.
 How that may have impacted you.
 Again, and while this isn't our bigger process that we do through the event, just doing that
 is going to help you to see how it's probably impacted decision making.
 You may come across quite a few things and start to see how you're making decisions.
 Now, again, it's still probably not going to drive you to the why, but that's okay.
 That's still a very important piece.
 As to see, is it affecting your decision making?
 And if it is, how can you adjust that?
 Now, when we make decisions based on our habits of the past, we lose out on some of
 the greatest moments because we don't truly understand the perspective of our past.
 I don't have to look back and be mad or make monsters or victims.
 I simply have to ask how did that impact me?
 As I understood that, is I realized I had put decision making processes in place that would
 affect me for 10 years?
 I was able to see that my decision making was jacked up.
 Now I was able to understand the what?
 I was able to look back on that time and see what I had done and why not the why, but I
 understood the decision making process because of the situations that core impacts of my
 life.
 It took me years to discover the why.
 It was years later and it sounds like it would be something simple, but it's not.
 It's actually tied into a bunch of other stuff that had happened that I discovered the
 why.
 You're probably not going to get to the much deeper version of the why, but that's okay.
 I didn't need the why in that moment to make the decision to change my decision making process.
 I hope that makes sense.
 That was a mouthful right there.
 Here me on this.
 You're probably not going to get to that why like we do here?
 That's okay.
 Take to the actual impact and see how it affected your decision making now and at least you can
 make better decisions.
 At least you can change that.
 When I had discovered that I had made that bad decision, I changed the decision.
 I still didn't get the why yet that came later.
 That's why I want you to do this.
 So you can impact your decision making right now.
 So take time this week to go through the core impact identifier and see what's been impacting
 your decision making.
 What force of habit thinking is holding you back.
 If you want to go dig deeper and gain more perspective on your life and discover how to
 move past your core impacts and how to have a stronger life, we can walk you through that
 process.
 That's our next level life.
 Go to christlucrilo.com/nexlevelifall.
 One word or go to christlucrilo.com and click on transform your life and click on next level
 either way to learn more about that.
 Also the big wise in there that's attached to it.
 So you can move forward to your strongest life in the best version of you.
 If you are needing that, listen guys, for every single person out there right now who is
 saying to themself.
 Yes, one of these days I need to do that.
 One of these days I want to go do next level life.
 Listen to me.
 Listen to the voices of all the folks who waited a long time before they came in.
 Do it.
 Don't wait.
 Don't delay that.
 If you know you need to be in here, get in here.
 Get in here so we can help you get past the junk.
 Now it is god's timing and I truly believe in that.
 So if he is telling you to move right now, if he is telling you get off your stuff and go
 check this.
 Does anybody say "duff" anymore?
 Get off your bum and go check out next level life.
 Then do it.
 Just get some information.
 At least check it out.
 And see if we can't help you change your life.
 Some of you out there are going, I don't have anything really bad in my past christ.
 I just want a stronger life.
 I just feel stuck.
 Great.
 We will help you get through that.
 Some of you have been through some stuff that you've never felt safe enough to share with anybody.
 You've heard some of the folks on the show that have felt so safe to share things and we
 haven't even gotten to some of the bigger stuff.
 So we would love to help out in any possible way that we can.
 Do your core impact identifier.
 This week for those of you that need to be here, come learn about next level life as fast
 as you can.
 So we can take care of you and change your life and get you moving on to such a stronger life
 and moving forward.
 What folks as always we hope that this is helped you to be.
 Take this information.
 Change your leadership.
 Change your business.
 Change your life.
 And join us on the next level.
 [MUSIC]