 Tough stuff happens in our lives. How do you navigate work during a live crisis? More on that coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCordo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are. Welcome to the show folks. Today we are talking about
 handling your work through all-life crisis. Now here's the deal. Crisis happens. Difficult these trials.
 How do you navigate work in these times? Now often we as individuals we respond in unhealthy ways.
 You know at work we usually fall into one of two camps. You're either internalizing it,
 which means that somebody else would never know that there's something wrong with you. They could
 not see it because you are stuffing it inside or there's an tendency to externalize it. Now we're
 going to talk more about that right after you hear about this. Folks, I want to talk about
 something I am really excited about. According to our yearly surveys the number one struggle
 for business leaders for three years running is lack of direction. So we're doing something new to help
 leaders solve this September 19th through the 20th we are hosting aligned, discover and develop
 the right direction for your business. Now it's a hands-on workshop style event. In 36 hours we will work
 with you to align your business with a compelling mission, vision and strategy. You'll figure out
 the right direction for your business and develop a great strategy to get there. There's a lot more
 information limited spots available. So learn more at christlicardo.com/aligned. Again, that is
 christlicardo.com/aligned or text the word aligned to 4-4-2-2-2. Again, that's the word aligned to 4-4-2-2-2.
 So we're talking about handling life crisis at work. How do you handle work when your struggling
 with something in your life? Something difficult in your life? And the unhealthy tendencies that people
 tend to have, the invisible tendencies is performed, pretend, protect, right? Keep working,
 act as though everything's okay, protect yourself. Stuff your emotions. Make sure that you are not
 showing the emotions that you're dealing with. This is something that the self-protection side of
 stuffing emotions is so self-destructive. Now, in our minds what we think is don't show anybody that
 I'm struggling with something because if I did then I had to be vulnerable then I get judgment
 so on and so forth. And I completely understand that. I agree. You may be working in an environment where
 if you're dealing with something then people are going to judge the living daylights out of you.
 Ladies, you absolutely tend to struggle with this. If you're working in an environment of men who are
 the good old boys network where emotions are not okay, they're a bad thing, they're a sign of weakness,
 all it kind of crap, right? So understand the tendencies that you're going to have, one of those is
 going to be that you're going to stuff your emotions. That's actually, you don't need to bring your
 emotions out of work. Don't need to say that you need to go ballistic and share all your emotions at work.
 What I'm saying is that when we tend to stuff our emotions, what we do is is that we start to
 tear ourselves apart from the inside. If you just look at the physical response that you get from
 stuffing your emotions, the cortisol dumps into your stomach that is destroying your stomach,
 your bacteria, your digestion, the way your brain operates, your serotonin, your melatonin, all that kind of craziness.
 Stuffing your emotions while it seems like it's the smart thing to do is not the smartest thing to do, right?
 Now again, like I said, you don't need to share all your stuff at work. But understand that when you
 stuff your emotions look at it this way. Think of it as building that wall that wall that separates
 you from everybody else. You begin to isolate you dealing with your thoughts, your feelings,
 your emotions, and worst of all, your negative self-talk. Those things that you're telling yourself.
 So stuffing emotions, that is something that's going to hurt you in the long run. Another thing we do
 is we know a lot of folks will find what we call the surface-level responses, a way to numb from what
 they're experiencing, what they're feeling, what they're struggling with, whether it's obviously that
 the easy one to go to is going to be alcohol. But some folks, it's anger. Some folks, it's manipulation.
 Some folks, it's procrastination. Some folks, it's compartmentalizing everything in their lives.
 We use this tactic to numb because we don't know how to deal with the thing that we're struggling with,
 or we don't understand something about the thing that we're struggling with. Numbing actually doesn't
 make it go away. It does for a short period of time, right? But then you tend to have the consequences of
 the numbing. So obviously, if you're drinking yourself to sleep each night because of something
 you're struggling with, well, the next day is going to hurt, right? If you're procrastinating
 because you don't want to deal with the things that you're struggling with, then that's going to pile up,
 and it's going to become an even bigger pain. So think through that process, that's not the best
 route for you to go either. Another invisible tendency. Don't talk, don't trust, don't feel.
 Where we tend to think if we can just compartmentalize. If we can just keep people at a distance,
 if we can just not feel anything. If we can do all of these things, then surely that's going to be
 the thing that helps us to get over the thing that we're dealing with. It appears as though it's going
 to work, but ultimately what ends up happening is it just creates bigger issues. The outcome, when you're
 doing this, you're living in a false self. And when crisis is gone, guess what? You're still in a
 very unhealthy place. Some of the visible tendencies that we will see that our unhealthy one,
 somebody is dealing with a life crisis, especially at work, irritable. You can see it a lot of time
 that irritation. Everything is 10,000 times worse. So if you go to, if you go and get your coffee in the
 morning and it usually takes you five minutes, if it takes five and a half minutes, you're just
 pissed. You're just upset. It's just every single thing seems to be setting you off. Because every
 thing that's not operating perfectly well in your life, all of a sudden has an amplified irritation to you.
 Another thing is emotionally volatile. We'll see this over and over and over again. You can see that
 in a way that they treat people. Maybe they're setting people's reality or maybe they're becoming,
 again, angry or maybe they're becoming manipulative in the process. Another visible tendency is depression.
 Obviously, when you're going through something difficult, there's a lot that will show up in the area
 of depression as though who knows what it is. It could be something you maybe you're dealing with a
 divorce, maybe you're dealing with a big fight that you've had, maybe you're dealing with loss.
 But depression is one of those things that as people at work see it. Now again,
 I'm not saying that you can't be depressed, but understand that as people see it, they're going to
 receive that as you not being able to handle a situation. Lethurgy is another thing where you just don't
 want to do anything. I have gone through some traumatic experiences in my life and I remember the
 most traumatic experience I went through years ago. I remember a couple of days. I couldn't get my brain
 to function. I couldn't get my brain to work. Like I just sat there staring at a computer for two days.
 So Lethurgy can definitely be something that you can see on you if you're dealing with a crisis or something
 very difficult while you're at work. What does the outcome? This can damage work relationships.
 Loose trust and have an impact that reaches far beyond the crisis itself. The crisis season can be over,
 but you've hurt relationships and potentially your future at the company. Right? If people experience
 you's just being irritable or emotionally volatile or not being able to do your work, then that can absolutely
 affect things. We're sure not going to go and talk with somebody in leadership. And explain what
 we're experiencing. That would just be terrible. Now listen, I'm saying that in sarcasm because if you
 don't have a leader that you can't talk to, then it's probably smart not to. We are the leaders
 around here and I've led my teams for decades as the kind of person that if somebody was experiencing
 something they knew that the person that they can come and express things with. So coping versus healing,
 surviving versus living. Both strategies are a response where you are stuck surviving instead of healing
 and living. So if you're coping or surviving, I can tell you that tends to be the direction we choose
 because who taught us, who taught us how to heal, who taught us how to live. So in tough spots, we need
 tools, we need life tools. Now there's a world of difference when a healthy person navigates
 a crisis versus an unhealthy person. What a healthy people do. The first thing they do is they feel
 their feelings. It's okay to feel the stuff that you're feeling. Now the scary thought is,
 oh, my feelings are wrong or somebody's telling me my feelings are wrong or I'm going to make all
 my decisions versus my feelings. Now I don't want you to make a living off of your feelings.
 Now one of the things we talk about all the time in the next level of life is feelings versus
 facts. A lot of times your feelings are going to get you in trouble. However, if you don't recognize them,
 if you're not able to feel what you're feeling, it's going to be incredibly difficult to recognize
 what's good, what's bad, what's right, what's wrong. If you stuff all of that stuff, if you stuff all of
 those feelings, then you never actually stop to ask yourself the question, is what I'm feeling correct?
 You know, where's the facts with what I'm feeling? So first thing healthy people do is they're okay
 with feeling what they're feeling. It's all right. They're not afraid of the appearance of weakness.
 I have so many leaders and business owners that are women that as they come through something like
 next level of life or they come through strap plan, they come from this amazing background that so many
 people have experienced that their emotions are weakness. Now, it is hilarious, especially in a,
 you know, like I say, the good old boy world where a guy is okay if he gets pissed off and goes and punches
 a wall, but it's not okay for a woman to get pissed off and cry. The truth is that's how we're built,
 we're built that way, that's how we express our emotions. It doesn't mean that I'm a weak if I'm crying.
 So you have to understand that healthy people are not afraid of appearing weak because of something
 they're dealing with. There have been a handful of times in people's next level of lives,
 I've cried with them. There have been times when as I'm leading somebody through a process that it is just,
 you know, I mean it is getting to me and it brings tears to my eyes. That doesn't mean I'm weak.
 The person who's experiencing it doesn't mean that they're weak. What it means is that they're
 experiencing an emotion. So if you're afraid of the appearance of weakness, then that should
 really tell you a something about you, of how you're viewing the situation that you're going through,
 but also where are you? Who are you surrounded by? Healthy people aren't afraid to appear as though they are
 weak because they're experiencing something. Another thing healthy people do is they embrace vulnerability.
 They understand that to get through struggles, to get through life crisis, that it is okay to be vulnerable.
 Now let me speak to this here. Being vulnerable does not mean that you air your dirty laundry with
 everybody, that you tell everybody what you're experiencing, that you tell everybody all the problems.
 In fact, I'm going to suggest that you don't do that unless you're talking to somebody who's healthy,
 who can caveat help you. It does not help you to just dump your crap on somebody. Being vulnerable
 doesn't mean that you dump all your crap on everybody. It means that you understand where you are.
 It means that you understand what you're experiencing. It means that you understand that it's okay
 that you may not be great right now, that you may not be able to think well, work well, take care of others,
 like you have in the past. Whatever that is, that vulnerability, that vulnerability is being okay
 to be experiencing what you're experiencing right now, no matter what it is. So healthy people embrace that,
 they understand it. Healthy people do not go in vomit, though all their problems on other people. That is what
 unhealthy people do. Another thing they do is they choose community. Now, when I say community, what I am
 saying is healthy people, it is incredibly smart for you to surround yourself with healthy people,
 to surround yourself with people who do not absolutely enable you to struggle, who do not
 sit there and tell you, you know, cry with you and continue to bring up the crap so you can
 continue to cry about your situation. But they sympathize, they may be even empathize and they help you
 by feeling and understanding what you're going through, but also pointing you toward health,
 helping you to see what healthy restoration looks like. My best example of this is it just drives me nuts.
 Whenever you look at somebody who's being a victim, especially on social media, you see this,
 over and over again. You can see the victim who reaches out and complains about something and then you see
 unhealthy community. So if this is you, you need to recognize you're doing this.
 Unhealthy community comes around and starts enabling like crazy. Oh, my boss is such a horrible
 boss. Why is that? Oh, because they got on to me for being late three days in a row. Oh, my gosh,
 I had a boss like that once too. Oh, they just don't understand how good you are. How
 much you come over tonight and we'll drink wine and talk about it. Guys, that's not healthy community.
 Healthy community goes, well, were you late three times? Well, yeah. Okay. Well, then take
 responsibility for being late. Don't blame your boss because you chose to do something wrong.
 So choose community, choose community that's going to understand what you're going through. If you're
 going through something that's really difficult and you're not being a victim,
 then this is the community that's going to help you to solve the problem, to experience what you need to
 experience. Another thing they do is they seek help. Who are the people that have been through this,
 that teach on this, that, you know, guide on this, that shepherd on this, you know, who can, who can I
 go to when I'm really dealing with something in life, that somebody knows how to help me. Somebody knows
 how to give me tools, how to get help, not to let me sit and while are in the problem because that is
 only self destructive. It's not saying that you don't get it once again. You heard me the very first thing
 I said is feel your feelings, right? Healthy people are able to do that. What I'm saying is is that,
 you know, you're not getting around people who are immediately going to tell you that you can't
 feel anything. You got to fix everything. You just got to get over yourself, but you're also not
 getting around people who are saying, you know what? Let's just sit in this crap for a long time and be victims.
 Somebody who understands and somebody who knows how to walk you to health. Healthy people seek help.
 Another thing that healthy people do is they know their limits and their boundaries. They know how much
 they can give and not give. Now a very unhealthy tendency for folks while they're dealing with crisis
 is to overwork. Once again, it's a great coping mechanism. Is that if I will work my butt off and
 just keep my brain from thinking about the situation, that will totally solve it. And unfortunately,
 what it ends up doing is stressing you out even more and just stacking on to the problems. Healthy
 people know their limits. They know their boundaries. If you're struggling with something, then you've
 got to get to somebody who can help you sooner than trying to outwork your problem or trying to numb from your
 problem. Unhealthy people, they don't trust, they don't feel. Before we talk about the four steps of
 how to handle work in a life crisis, I have something exciting that I want to share with you. And that is
 our next level life, our two-day one-on-one personal discovery experience. Next level life is our
 two-day personal discovery experience. It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you through a
 process to help you discover your root system, to get on stuck in life and to discover what's holding
 you back from freedom and peace. Imagine this. What if you could wake up every morning with a
 clear purpose? What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict? Where would
 you be in a few months, a year, five years, if you had clarity, purpose, and peace? Probably a big difference
 for more you stand today. Now I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself,
 is there more? There is, and there is a better way. And it starts with the next level life. You can go to
 Chrissacorda.com/discover to take the next step. Now if you're struggling with this contentment,
 regret, or not feeling good enough, which most of you are, if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships
 are lacking, don't keep going through the same motions every single day. Learn how to move past
 the things robbing you of peace. Go to Chrissacorda.com/discover and take the next step.
 Alright, we're back and we're talking about facing life crisis at work. Now if you're facing a
 life crisis, you're four things to consider doing to move toward health and healing. And we're also going
 to have a PDF of all these four things to consider and the action items from this episode. And you can
 download that at Chrissacorda.com/d340. Now the first thing that we want to do is we want to notice,
 we want to name and we want to feel our feelings. You cannot bottle them up. They don't
 work like that. Emotions are signals. So if you ignore that signal, it will only get louder and more
 frequent until you address it. So think of it like the lights on our dashboard. The idiot lights
 that tell you, "Hey, something's wrong with your car." Now you've got to understand that your emotions
 operate the same way. You're going to have that one light that says, "Hey, this is something that
 you, you know, something isn't necessarily wrong yet, but you should get your oil changed in the
 next, you know, 5, 10,000 miles or something like that. Hey, it's time for an old change. That's coming
 up. Let's make sure we do that before something goes really bad. Or you have the light that comes on
 and says, "Hey, you are like two courts low on oil. This thing's about to become an extremely heavy
 paperweight." So do something about it right now. Your emotions operate the same way. You have
 certain emotions that are screaming at you saying, "You better do something about this right now."
 You know, stop. Solve this. Fix it. Figure it out. Name it. What is the thing that you're dealing with,
 right? And then get with somebody or do something to solve this. Number two is embrace vulnerability.
 Do you have a trusted leader? If you do, let them know what's going on. There is not a person in our
 company that cannot come to me or one of our leaders and share the difficult thing that they're
 experiencing. They know that they can do that. They know that we're going to work with them. They know that
 we're going to help them. If you have that fantastic, find that person inside of your workplace and
 try and get some help through this process. A great leader is going to support you in this. It's not.
 Doesn't mean that they're going to let you live this way for the rest of your life. They're going
 to support you in the process. We all feel like we're the only one struggling. When we share this
 stuff with somebody that we can trust, then we quickly realize that we're not. So the third thing you need to
 do is you need to choose community. And when I say that, I mean healthy community, seek support outside
 of work in family and counselors and church and support groups, et cetera, go out of your way to find
 help. Folks, we all need it. Listen, this is not the time. There's never really a time for you to
 need to protect yourself on this. Go find healthy people and put them in your life. Get them injected
 into your life, especially in a situation like this, right? But gosh, even when you're not going through
 stuff, don't be embarrassed. If you're embarrassed, you will isolate. There's only one reason to be
 embarrassed because you're going to be around people who are going to judge the crap out of you.
 So don't get around those people. Go find some healthy people that understand, can sympathize,
 can empathize, can guide you and direct you to health. So make sure that you choose a healthy community.
 Number four, reset your limits. Know that right now you're not at 100%. Leaders and business owners
 listen to me on this, trust me on this. If you have somebody that's going through a life crisis,
 especially a divorce or the loss of a loved one, I promise you, your people cannot work at 100%.
 Do not expect it. I have unfortunately too many times had to help people through this process. It's painful.
 It's difficult. There's times that they can't even think straight. I can tell you, if you're expecting
 100% out of them, you're making a big mistake. So what I do whenever somebody has to go through something
 like a big life crisis or something like that, I take a look around the things that they're
 most likely going to drop the ball on and I pull that from them and give it to somebody else who can help
 in this process. Give them time. This doesn't mean that we let them stay there for the rest of their lives.
 We just take care of them in their time. Folks, if you're experiencing this, if you're the one who's
 going through this, reevaluate your workload, your commitments. If you need to put some things on hold,
 it's okay or if you need to get some help with something on your plate, do it.
 Understand, while you're going through a life crisis, there's a fantastic phrase that I want you to use.
 Okay? So I want you to practice this with me. No. No, I can't do that. No, I can't come and
 spend time at that thing or no. I can't come and babysit your 17 kids while I'm dealing with,
 you know, this thing that I'm dealing with. It is okay for you to say no. Revaluate your work,
 load, reevaluate your commitments, put on hold what you need to, and get help with the things on your
 plate that you need help with. So beyond all that, if you're shutting down or reacting in an unhealthy
 way, then you have to understand that you are in an unhealthy place, whether you're ignoring it or you're
 lashing out either way, you are in an unhealthy place, both are reactions that you're surviving,
 but not healing. So use these four tools to choose health and to heal. If you keep doing the same
 things you've always done, you will continue living the same life you've always lived. So you can get the
 PDF download with these action steps that we talked about and a quick summary of all four areas we just
 covered. Just go to crustacard.com/340. Again, that's crustacard.com/340 and download all of that
 information. Well folks, again, thank you for joining me today. I hope it has served you well. I encourage
 you to subscribe, rate, and share the podcast to help more people join our community and as always.
 Take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next episode.