 If you understand and believe these three things
 I'm about to share, then you can take the right steps
 in business.
 More on that coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardo Show,
 where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do,
 not who you are.
 (upbeat music)
 Hey folks, welcome to the show.
 I don't know about you guys,
 but I really love it when someone I listened
 to and learned from the science to get personal
 and give me an inside look into their life
 or the career.
 It's probably why documentaries are so popular, right?
 When you get an inside look into a person's life,
 their hardships, their triumphs.
 While today, I want to get really personal
 and give everyone an inside look into my life
 in business over the last 25 or so years.
 I have worked for two major national brands.
 One where I worked my way up from an entry-level position
 and the other, I was brought on to run a business
 and I have seen the ends and outs.
 I have seen and personally experienced
 the difficult times and the triumphs.
 I can tell you, I've seen a lot.
 I've helped a lot of people over the last
 almost 30 years to go their leadership and their businesses.
 Now, while I share these things with you,
 I'm gonna share three more universal truths
 that I have found in the process.
 So before we dive into those truths,
 let's acknowledge something.
 Business is hard.
 It's not easy.
 We'll know, Douglas.
 No, seriously, you're probably understanding that right now.
 There, you know, that may be something
 that you understand really well
 because you may be going through something
 really difficult right now.
 But here are some common struggles that leaders have
 and things that I've coached business owners
 and leaders through, realizing that as a leader
 that you have surrounded yourself with a team
 that you don't enjoy.
 There are so many leaders that I have led
 and so many business owners that I have led
 that I've helped them to understand
 how they ended up setting up themselves
 with a team that didn't enjoy.
 Or a team that wasn't very productive, right?
 Another thing that you may have experienced
 is the love for your product or what you're doing,
 but for whatever reason your business just isn't growing.
 Maybe you find yourself being overwhelmed
 by fires and tasks and you're not doing any of the things
 you love.
 One of the toughest seasons for me and my leadership career
 was early on.
 I learned just so much from a time in my life
 where I had a disagreement on how something should go.
 And back in those days, well, actually, gosh,
 most of my leadership or business owner
 career had been paid off the bottom line,
 which is funny to realize, gosh, that's been almost
 30 years of that.
 But this was early on in my career
 when being paid off the bottom line really, really mattered to me.
 A lot.
 And I had a disagreement on how something should go
 with my leader.
 And I knew in my heart of hearts
 that the decision that I was wanting to make
 was a right decision, but my leader shifted in said,
 nope, we can't do it that way.
 We have to do it this other way.
 And I remember thinking to myself, well,
 they've been in leadership a long time
 and they know better than I do.
 So I should just follow this, even though deep down inside,
 I disagreed with it.
 Well, unfortunately it cost me personally six figures
 over the long run of having to try and make this thing
 work out and trying to make this thing actually profitable
 in this decision.
 And unfortunately, I ended up hurting me.
 I just really backed up and said, okay, what am I going to do
 differently?
 I need to make some better decisions than what I'm making right now.
 I know what it's like.
 I know how difficult and how tough business can be.
 I've got my own four businesses.
 I love it.
 I absolutely love it.
 So there are a lot more stories that I could share
 with you to prove that business is hard, but I want to go ahead
 and share the three universal truths that I have learned
 along the way that has helped my work life be marked
 a lot more by success than by difficulty.
 And I share these things with you because it is what I want
 for you, business is tough, but it doesn't have to be
 the defining characteristic of your work life.
 That situation that I experienced early on,
 I made heavy decisions to never be stuck there again.
 So this is a stuff I want for you.
 I want to teach you on this.
 I want you to experience in your own business.
 If you understand and believe these things,
 these three things I'm about to share,
 then you can take the right steps to move forward.
 Now, it doesn't matter what your specific issue is
 and literally doesn't.
 And it also does not matter what industry you're in.
 The things that I teach is not industry specific.
 It is stuff that you can use anywhere.
 So here are the three universal truths in leadership and business
 that can guide you to success.
 Number one, you have to understand that there are solutions
 to your struggles.
 Once again, I know that sounds like,
 well, of course, that's basic Chris.
 The reason why I'm saying it that way is because a lot of folks
 get heavy into their struggles and think,
 this is just the way it is.
 They get stuck in this thought of things.
 They're just not going to change.
 There's many leaders that believe that being a leader,
 being a business owner just means that I'm always going to be overwhelmed.
 Folks, that's just not truth.
 You don't have to be overwhelmed.
 You literally don't have to be overwhelmed to be successful.
 I'm not overwhelmed.
 I lead a business teaching people how not to be overwhelmed.
 Teaching leaders how not to be overwhelmed.
 But so many folks, so many business leaders
 that business owners believe that the only way to have a proper identity,
 the only way to have worth, the only way to be successful
 is that they've got to be completely overwhelmed with what they do every single day.
 It's just not truth.
 When you have the proper tools, when you know how to lead people to success,
 guess what?
 An amazing thing happens, you begin leading instead of being overwhelmed.
 You begin delegating things and duplicating yourself in the process instead of being overwhelmed.
 It's not only just possible, we have a ton of people that are going through these processes
 and learning how to do that.
 So don't believe that.
 There is a solution to that.
 Another thing that people think is, I can't find qualified team members for my business
 or with my budget.
 Yes, you can.
 I know that's a difficult one.
 Now I know.
 I'm somebody who has built multiple businesses, right?
 And in the early phases of building a business, you're not putting out a whole ton of money
 to pay for people that have been doing something for 20 years and have been experts at it.
 Sometimes you're spending less money with your budget.
 But folks, it's not about not being able to find the qualified team members.
 It's how you do it.
 It's how you go about it.
 It's having the right tools.
 Another way that business leaders of business owners can struggle is by the
 belief that I can't inspire my team or confidently lead them to their full potential.
 You absolutely can inspire your team.
 You absolutely can lead your team confidently.
 The struggle isn't that you can't.
 The struggle is somebody hasn't taught you how yet.
 The struggle is somebody hasn't given you the information on how to do it.
 Don't fool yourself in a thinking that your issue is unique.
 It's not.
 Don't fool yourself into thinking that you're the only person going through this.
 You are not.
 You're just not.
 It always cracks me up when we have new folks join our programs or our events.
 They're sitting there among veterans that have been with us for a while and I'll ask a question
 about something and I'll go, how many I'll think you're the only one going through this
 and you'll see the new hands go up and the veterans just laugh because we've all been
 through it.
 So don't think that you're in your situation or your issue is unique.
 Also don't fool yourself into thinking that there isn't a solution for your struggle.
 There absolutely is.
 So for example, if I go back to the situation I was talking about earlier, when I had a belief
 that I had the right idea on how to do something that was going to make us money and unfortunately
 I I act we asked to a leaders idea on that after all things went down and everything failed
 and we all lost a lot of money and all this kind of stuff, I sought help.
 I actually sought out two people who actually had been through stuff like I'd been through
 before and had been successful and I started learning how I could put things in place to solve
 that.
 One of the things that I learned was how to say no how I could lead up in a situation like that
 where I completely disagreed with the situation or did not want to take on the responsibility
 that would affect me negatively.
 That having somebody who had been there before teach me how to do that was crazy powerful.
 Teaching me of how I could have led that situation there are things that I could have done
 to have solved it earlier on by making some quick adjustments where it would not have been as bad
 of a loss.
 Once I get into the place of realizing, hey this thing is not going the way that I think it
 should.
 It's time to stop trusting that I don't have the right answer and put some solutions in that
 would have tested that.
 That was a big accountability piece for me to test the theory and actually show the holes in
 the process that we're going to cause it to fall apart.
 So you can get solutions to your struggles.
 Trust me.
 All the stuff that I teach people.
 I've been teaching people how to run their businesses out of grow their businesses out of
 grow their leadership all that kind of fun stuff.
 Guess what I'll came from?
 Me failing.
 There's one thing that I do when I fail and that is to learn how to fix it.
 Learn how to not do that again and teach you guys how to do exactly the same thing.
 So don't believe those lies.
 Those are all things that we tell ourselves as business owners or business leaders.
 Some of those struggles that we experience.
 Number two, you need to get the right tools to get the right result.
 So think of it like the nets that you're trying to kill.
 And you're trying to kill them with a hammer.
 Instead of killing nets you're actually putting holes in the walls.
 Thinking that you're doing the right thing.
 Thinking that you're taking the right actions.
 It reminds me of for those of you that have ever seen Rattitude.
 I love cooking.
 The part where the old lady pulls out the shotgun to kill the one mouse.
 And she's blowing holes all through her whole house trying to kill this one mouse or one
 rat and then discovers there's like, you know, 4,000 in there.
 I have experienced this.
 My very first leadership role in the very beginning.
 When I stepped into my first leadership role at 21 years old, I started leading people the
 same way that I had been led.
 I went into that point.
 I probably had four or five different leaders.
 And the way that I chose to lead was from experience, which meant that I started telling people
 how to do the things that they needed to do.
 The folks that their eyes were shining with me when I was on their level, that shine quickly
 diminished when I became a quasi leader.
 And you know, started telling people what to do.
 And that situation early on that probably took me somewhere between three to six months.
 I don't remember that was a long time ago, 28 years ago.
 I started asking questions.
 I had paid attention to how I was leading and how people were responding.
 In a 21 years old, I realized this isn't going to work.
 What I had been top before is not going to work.
 So instead of leading by the examples that I had, I don't know what I was saying I had
 nothing but bad leaders.
 But I didn't have people showing me the things that I began to learn in that moment right there.
 Instead of telling people what to do, I started doing what I now call taxing the collective
 intelligence.
 I started getting buying.
 I started asking people.
 Instead of telling them how to do something, I started asking them what their input was.
 I started asking them for their ideas.
 I started seeing what they knew.
 Here's the real thing.
 Here's what I realized.
 I sat there one day thinking, well, I can't be the only smart person working at this company.
 This was at E-Trade, by the way.
 This is way back when.
 I can't be the only smart person here.
 Everybody else is smart too.
 Everybody else is got good ideas.
 Maybe I should just try and pull it out of them.
 It changed the way people responded to me.
 I started learning and started gaining and growing in the tools of how to lead correctly to lead
 properly.
 The amazing thing is you have to have the right tools to get the results that you want, especially
 if they are the right results.
 For us here, one of the biggest things we do starting back in 1991 is that we gain perspective
 like crazy.
 Assessing the true cause of your problem is the most important thing that you can do.
 Whatever you're struggling with, gaining high quality perspective on it is powerful.
 That's one of the things we teach in all of the things we do in events that we do here.
 Next up, a live, strap plan, all that kind of fun stuff is we help people to see the difference
 between a western mindset and an eastern mindset.
 Or mindset here in the west, what we believe is if you have a problem, an opportunity or solution
 go get it, go do it, go fix it, go make it happen, go solve it, whatever it is.
 Go go go go go, just go and do.
 In an eastern mindset, they will spend time circling their problem, their opportunity, their solution,
 gaining and gathering as much perspective as they possibly can.
 So the next thing you need to know, the number two thing is you need the right tools
 to get to the right results.
 Number three, investment is an optional.
 If you're not growing, you're dying.
 Now you can never lead something significant in coast.
 It's just not going to happen.
 You have to constantly be investing in yourself and your leadership and in your business.
 Those things are always tied together.
 If you're not investing in those three areas, you're not growing as a leader.
 If you are investing in those three areas, then guess what, you're growing in all of those
 areas.
 You're not the thing that's holding everything back.
 You're not the problem or the cog or the bottleneck in your business or your leadership.
 If you're investing in all those areas, you're not just affecting you personally, but you're
 affecting your leadership and you're affecting your business.
 Here's a deal.
 You have to actually have a plan for it.
 Nobody passively invest.
 You don't just sit around and get that investment.
 You don't just sit around and just grow by as Moses.
 If you do, then hey, help me to know how you do that because that's impressive.
 The only way to find the solutions and to get to the right tools is by investing, by working
 on you, working on your business, not in your business.
 People often ask me, like what's the best investment you've ever made in your professional
 life?
 There are two aspects that I look at this one.
 It was the investment that I spent growing in gaining in the tools, making sure that I actually
 knew what I was doing, seeking people who knew what to do, who had been there, who had
 been in the trenches, who had experienced what I experienced.
 That's always been one of the top investments that I've ever made.
 The second has been investing in quality people, duplicating myself, whether it's a
 leader or business owner, duplicating myself so that I could drive toward the results that I'm
 looking for, to drive towards the success that I'm looking for.
 That has paid off more than you can possibly imagine.
 I'm not just talking about hiring somebody and putting them in a role, because as we talked
 about earlier, a lot of folks are still overwhelmed as a leader because they're still doing
 so much.
 I duplicate myself all the time.
 I take the things off of me.
 That's why we're so heavy on focusing on killing the leadership crazy cycle, right?
 So that we can make the leader successful.
 If you invest in you, if you invest in your leadership, if you invest in your business,
 the great thing is you can start doing that where you're duplicating yourself or you're setting
 your team up for success or you're driving your business towards success.
 Here's your action steps.
 The question is, how are you investing in your business and your leadership?
 I want you to get a plan for development.
 What leadership conference are you going to attend in 2020?
 Make that plan right now.
 What podcast do you need to make sure you listen to consistently?
 Is there a weak area in your business that you should pick up a book or hop on a coaching
 call and find the right tools?
 Maybe a good thing to do is ask a spouse or a close friend.
 What are some of the ways you think I should invest in my personal or professional life?
 So I challenge you.
 This week.
 Act.
 Out of your plan and take initiative.
 Don't stop until you find the solutions to your struggles.
 And you get the right tools to see the results.
 Invest.
 Invest daily.
 And invest deeply.
 Daily.
 You should be always taking in something.
 Leadership books, podcasts.
 I'm going to tell you by far the most powerful teaching that I get is when I spend time with
 God and especially when I spend time in God's word.
 The information I get is phenomenal.
 I don't just do daily go deeper than that.
 Do do things that are absolutely necessary like events or coaching or ongoing programs.
 The more you pour into you, the more you're going to find yourself moving towards success.
 Folks, because these three truths have been so foundational to my leadership.
 I am basing our 2020 next level leadership live event around them.
 We're going to be opening registration for the event next week.
 So make sure you tune into next week's podcast.
 Well, folks, hopefully this has helped you today.
 Thank you so much for joining me.
 I hope it has served you well.
 I encourage you to subscribe, rate and share the podcast to help more people join our community.
 And as always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life.
 And join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]