 Are you missing out on some of the greatest leadership opportunities more on that coming up next?
 Welcome to the Chris LaCordo Show where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. I hope you're having a phenomenal day wherever you are. It is hot.
 Still where we are. It's late in the year. It's still hot. Which is amazing.
 Folks, I am really excited about our show today because
 the subject that we're talking about today. It's a tough one. It's a tough one.
 I'm going to have like 73 caveats in this show alone talking about how to follow this piece of advice
 that I have for you. But if you get this, this is going to be big for you as a leader.
 It's going to open heatsters world credit. I'll leader a team member, a state home mom or dad,
 doesn't matter. The piece that I'm talking about today is big for you as an individual.
 Doesn't matter what it is. Now, to kind of discuss that, I kind of share that I'm going to
 tee that up with. Something that was big for me. I just discovered. I didn't even know this, but
 I'm celebrating 10 years, 10 years of racing formula cars. I didn't even recognize that it
 had been 10 years. But it takes me back to when I started. And when I was getting my license and one of
 the most powerful things I spent, some really heavy intense days training to get my license and
 had all these coaches teaching me this school that I was going through to teach me and get me to this
 place where I can get my license and all that was crazy powerful. But one of the most powerful,
 probably the most powerful thing is they put a professional out there on the track. And that professional
 kicked my butt. Obviously, right? But after I pulled into the pits, I spent about 20 minutes,
 20 minutes gaining as much, here comes a ready for it. Feedback as I possibly could from that pro.
 I mean, I asked question after question after question after question after question after question.
 And that's just me. I've been that way pretty much my whole life. Gaining higher quality perspective
 is something that is crazy important to me. It's really huge in what we do our business,
 a big part of our business, a lot of the stuff that we teach the events that we do, the programs
 that we do, the services that we do are built on this, gaining high quality perspective,
 gaining high quality feedback as well, right? So sometimes you gain perspective in a multitude of ways
 and one of those tools that we're going to talk about today is feedback. The great thing is when you get
 good quality feedback, I'm, you're going to hear me like I said, there's going to be a lot of caveats.
 When you get quality feedback, a great thing happens, it opens up visibility. It helps you to see things,
 visibility creates opportunity. So we're going to be talking about that today. So if you get a
 bad taste in your mouth, when you hear the word feedback, then guess what, that's a great place to start
 because that may mean a couple of things. It may mean that you struggle with feedback. It may mean that
 you have got unhealthy people giving you feedback. There's a bunch of things that it could be,
 but the most important thing to recognize is that if you're not getting quality feedback,
 how do you know what's right? How do you know what's great? How do you know what you're doing? Well,
 how do you know what you need to change? So the first caveat in this thing is, sometimes feedback does
 come from unhealthy and controlling people. And that is not what we're looking for here today.
 Through this whole show what I'm talking about is getting with healthy people,
 getting with experienced people, getting with people who want to set you up for success,
 getting with people who want to help you to grow. So big caveat as we walk through all this stuff. So
 when we're talking about feedback, we're talking about it coming from healthy people who have
 good perspective. Now with that said, we can still struggle with feedback. You know, what happens when
 the facts or say facts again, subjective from the person giving you to you, what happens when the
 feedback is challenging? What happens when it's disappointing? What happens when it points to failure? What
 happens when it points out failure? Right? So say it with me feedback as our friend. Healthy
 quality feedback is our friend. To get as much visibility as you possibly can, to see as much
 opportunity as you possibly can, you need to go after feedback. You need to seek other perspectives.
 You need to see if there's something that you're missing. So if you're used to receiving feedback
 as negative, then it's probably not going to help you at all. If you feel like if a struggle you
 haven't receiving feedback is that you feel like it means that you're a terrible leader or a terrible
 person. Then we've got to solve that. We're going to work on that piece right there, right? So as we
 talk about all the time, we don't make any victims or any monsters in this process. Instead, our goal
 is to get in quality perspective. So whether you receive it or not, whether you seek it or not, believe it or not,
 feedback already exists. And as leaders, we either choose how we're going to see it as amazing
 opportunities or something to be avoided. Something that we push under the rug and we don't want to deal with it.
 I can tell you this. Bad leaders are going to avoid feedback. Great leaders are going to pursue it. So
 it doesn't mean that I avoid getting any feedback from anybody. I know that there are people that are
 going to come at me with information, come at me with feedback and try and control or set my reality.
 It happens. I mean, look what I do for a living, right? So there are many times that people want to
 set my reality with information. That's not good. It's not quality. How do I know? Because I can
 turn to healthy people that I have around me and go, hey, what do you think about that? It is very
 easy to see, right? So key number one. Surround yourself with healthy people. So if somebody is trying to
 set your reality in a negative way, then you're always going to avoid it. However, if it's healthy
 folks, end your avoiding the feedback, then you've got to look at you. You've got to start taking a look at
 the person in the mirror. Why am I struggling with quality feedback? Why am I struggling with somebody
 who's trying to help me be better? Who's trying to speak into my life? Who's trying to get in direct
 me into a better direction? Why am I struggling with that? And that is a great place for you to really
 take a hard look at how much is not receiving feedback holding you back. How much is it keeping you
 from seeing greater opportunities? So this is one of the things we talk about in the next of a life
 where the amount of energy that goes into avoiding something like this. So we talk about it with
 like controlling people or people who are fighting so hard for their worth. When you think about the
 amount of energy that goes into battling not getting input from other people, avoiding it, keeping
 yourself in the same spot, dealing with the same struggles over and over again because you have
 and fixed the struggles or you haven't got good information to solve those struggles, it's an amazing amount.
 It's a lot of energy. But if you turn this around and understand that you can find people who are
 going to speak well into your life and you see it like great leaders do, then yes it may hurt.
 Yes it may be tough. Yes it may be difficult, but if it's good quality, healthy perspective,
 good quality, healthy feedback, then a great thing happens if you receive it and are able to move
 out on it then you can start gaining bigger visibility. So with all of that said,
 here's what I want you to know. I have been in the same boat. There is no person on the planet who just
 absolutely loves getting nothing but feedback about things that they can fix and change and
 you know things are struggling with. I totally get that. I completely understand. I'm in the boat with
 you right. The reason why I'm discussing this is because it is something that we see all the time
 where people are struggling with getting the quality feedback and it's holding them back. I've been there.
 I know it's like it's still something that in my life that I have to make sure that I'm not struggling with.
 And for the guy who is constantly looking for more information, sometimes it comes my way and I don't want it.
 But there's a rule that I absolutely live by if I can get to higher quality perspective, I can make
 better decisions. So folks, that's what I want you to understand. The higher quality perspective you get to.
 The greater decisions you can make. I'm not saying that you're going to do it.
 I'm saying it gives you the opportunity to make better decisions in your life, to make healthier decisions.
 For you leaders to make better business decision, leading decisions, teen decisions, whatever it is,
 right? So I understand what it's like. I get it. It's tough. However, if you're able to receive it
 and you're able to be healthy about it and you're able to grow from it, then it's going to give you
 that credibility and that credibility is going to lead to greater opportunities. Now before we get into
 capitalizing on this great opportunity, that is feedback, I want to tell you something exciting, that is coming this
 spring. I've never seen a leader that's had everything that they wanted. Out of thousands of leaders that I've
 coached, most are probably a lot like you. You wish you saw greater productivity and less drama from your team
 that you didn't spend your energy putting out fires, that you had more time to invest in your family and
 the things that you enjoy and you felt more equipped to lead your team to success. The only thing that's holding
 leaders back from the results they desire is having the right tools and you can get those tools at the
 next level leadership live event. So if you're young, old, new, experienced, struggling or really successful,
 this event is for anyone who is ready to learn from 25 years of best practices that get proven results.
 It's not about short-term fixes. In three days, I'm going to teach you how to have sustained revenue
 growth to generate greater productivity from your team and get immediate momentum toward the results that
 you want. It's going to be detailed, practical and loaded with how to's. From the lessons we're
 teaching, our clients have seen an average of 46% increase in growth profit in one year's time. That's one year's time.
 These clients are a normal, everyday businesses and your business can have the same level of success.
 So if you're ready to see those results, go to crissacrido.com/events and get your
 tell to this event and invest in your leadership and your business that's crissacrido.com/events. I can't
 wait to see you there. So here's what I want to know. Speaking on getting feedback from people
 again, caveat again, talking about those healthy people who want to succeed, all that kind of
 stuff. Do you have consistent ways or processes of seeking that feedback? So some ways that you can do this.
 Now we always suggest that you have one-on-one meetings with your team. Now I'm speaking to the
 leaders on this but folks this you know apply as you can if you're not a leader that's fine.
 Or if you're a team member are you getting it from your leadership right or if you're a spouse,
 are you getting it from your spouse, all that stuff. So we highly suggest that as a leader that you
 are having one-on-ones with your team members. Now if you are running a team of 75, there's a really
 good chance you're not going to do that on a consistent basis. If you are running 75 people that's
 that's all another show right there. So take a look at the kinds of meetings that you have. Do you have
 meetings with your team members? Do you have meetings with your team leaders? Do you have meetings with
 leaders? What are those opportunities that you can seek? Good quality feedback about you?
 Set that up as something that you do on a consistent basis right? It doesn't have to be every single meeting
 you know people are now anticipating you're going to be saying hey what's wrong with me? You know
 look for those opportunities when you can get that feedback. Take a look at annual surveys. Guys,
 you need to survey your peeps. Ask the kind of questions that are going to give you feedback in the
 areas that you're seeking right areas that you can have more visibility, more opportunity.
 Look for those opportunities. I can tell you what we do after every single event are public events,
 not our next level of life, not our straplans, but our public event that we do, whether it's next
 level leadership live event or the aligned event that we just had recently or our quarterly retreats,
 we have a meeting where we discuss two things. What went well? We want to make sure that we're
 padding people on the back. Hey guys let's celebrate that we just did a great event. This all went well.
 So we will talk about what went well and then we will talk about what went wrong. What do we need to
 fix? And in that meeting it is a tough meeting. I'm telling everybody on my team who's a part of that
 process, write down notes, take notes, put down the things that we need to change, put down the things
 that didn't work, put down the things that we need to fix. You know, write these things down so that we
 can discuss it. Why? Because I'm always wanting to grow. I'm always wanting to make things better.
 So I can tell you it's a difficult conversation to have. I started that meeting
 cheese probably 17 years ago somewhere around there. I started that with my team and I can tell you.
 It took about four meetings for them to speak up, right? Because what's the first thing everybody wants
 to do, throw somebody down to the bus. And so the very moment, it finally did happen that somebody
 threw somebody on the bus. I pushed back quickly and I said, hey, we don't do that here. We're not.
 Our goal is not to play the blame game. Our goal is to look at what went wrong and what can we fix.
 About four meetings into it. One of my guys, Lance Osborn, shout out to Lance.
 So well, I'll tell you what I did wrong. I'll tell you something I screwed up on. I didn't do this
 thing over here. And I know if you've affected you over there and you're talking to another one of our
 coordinators, Heather. As I know, I know this affected you. So I've done this and I've fixed this in my
 checklist and so I want to make sure that doesn't happen again. Boom. All of a sudden, we're having
 really good feedback and it became powerful. That became one of the best meetings I've had. I mean,
 17 some years, I think, no, I've been doing that with events. And it is powerful when the team gets in
 and says, this is what went wrong. But now, sometimes the information is not 100% correct. Sometimes they
 need to gain some more perspective on it. But for the most part, it's powerful. So take a look at
 those opportunities. An example would be if you've got a sales page, sometimes with us before we go live,
 we'll send it out to the business owners that we work with. So we can receive some feedback. We want
 to find out. What do you guys think about this? What are you seeing here? What are you experiencing?
 Does this work for you? So look for those consistent processes that you can take feedback.
 Another way you can do this is peer to peer. Now, you should be working with other peers. So
 like if you're in sales, you should be working with marketing. You can figure this out. It's not
 very difficult. You should be working with peers to help you get out of your silos. To help
 you get out of the view that you have. Now, if you don't have one, so again, I'll point back to the
 caveat. Pants. You know, not somebody who's going to be healthier or somebody who's super selfish and just,
 you know, is going to give you bad information. So it helps them. Don't talk to them. You know,
 right? Our don't at least come to them for that type of feedback. But a lot of you do have good
 quality peers that you can focus with. So what is a sales team member seeing inside of marketing?
 That could be stronger to help their area. What is marketing seeing side of sales? That could help their
 area. Right? Admin working with sales. I know they always get along. Winque, not you know,
 these should be some combinations, you know, peer to peer working with somebody to say, hey,
 here's what I'm doing. What do you see? Oh my gosh. If a sales person actually asked that to an
 admin person who was helping them, it would be amazing. Right? They'd probably have a heart attack
 right then in there. I mean, it would just be shocking. But it's also the same way the other way around. Right?
 If an admin actually asked that of a sales person, what would happen? We could actually have quality
 feedback, quality perspective. We could discover, hey, you know, when you do this thing here,
 adding a solution together. Look out here. So is it possible that we can work on getting a solution
 together? Look out now. Peer to pair could possibly solve stuff like that. So look at these opportunities.
 Also, what you say and how you say is one of the most important parts of receiving quality feedback.
 If you're trying to gain perspective and the words you're using are controlling,
 if they're leading, listen, leading questions, people do this all the time. We see this in
 strappan all the time where somebody will is struggling with a specific topic. And instead of just
 asking for quality feedback, we have a saying here that came out of strappan years ago. And it is
 ask a freaking question. So a lot of times people will not ask a good question. They want to ask a
 quality question. They don't want to get that feedback. And when they finally do ask a question,
 it's usually leading. Something along the lines of, don't you agree that that's not going to
 work out because of this, this, and this? And it becomes this leading question. Kind of,
 you're not going to get quality feedback from that. You're going to get the answer that you want, right?
 So instead of doing that, be very cautious of how you say things, because of what you say.
 Because if you ask it in a way that appears that you really don't want anybody's input,
 guess what? You're not really going to get anybody's input. So be very cognizant of that.
 Now another great idea is for you to have questions ready.
 Things like, what do you see that we could make better? Or what frustrations do you have right now?
 What would you have done differently? These are all good questions to ask that is not leading.
 It is asking for great perspective. What do you see about this thing? How would you have changed it?
 You might even ask questions like, did it make sense to you? Do you understand it? Is there any
 questions you have about it? Would you like some perspective as to why I did what I did or why this ran the
 way that ran? Whatever that is, make sure that you have good questions already ready. So that when you
 ask for good quality feedback, you know what to expect. Now getting feedback can be one of the most
 difficult things that we do as leaders. So what you say is important, but when and how you say it
 is even more important. That's why we're going to be doing a follow-up episode to this. So to get to
 great quality feedback, you have to leave the process. And we don't have time to talk about process
 in this episode. So next week, we're going to release an episode on how to receive feedback as
 a leader. If you realize right now that you've never been given feedback or been put in a position
 where you've received difficult criticism from a team member or maybe you have, but it wasn't a
 productive positive experience. Don't just start asking these questions tomorrow. How you do it
 is as important as doing it. So don't miss next week's episode. Well folks, hopefully this has helped
 you today. Thank you for joining me. I hope it has served you well. I encourage you to subscribe,
 rate, and share this podcast to help more people join our community. And as always, take this information,
 change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and make sure you join us on the next
 episode.