 It's hard for us as leaders to get this right, but when we do,
 it's one of our greatest opportunities. More on that coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardos Show, where we discuss leadership and life, and discover
 that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Hey folks, welcome to the show. Have a question for you. Have you ever been in a situation
 or a conversation or whatever, where going into it, you knew that it could either be phenomenal
 or it could suck out loud. I get my just be terrible. You remember that feeling? It's like the
 worst feeling ever because you really have no clue. You don't know what's going to happen. Last
 week's episode, I told you about one of the powerful pieces of my racing that helped me to gain
 great perspective on how to be a better race car driver. For those of you that don't know
 I race for a millacars. This week, I'm going to tell you about a similar type of situation.
 And that is the anticipation of turn one in a road race. Now, for those of you that don't know it,
 four millacars, what we do is we don't race ovals. We do like a couple of ovals, but we don't do the
 whole oval. We do like 90% of it. We come off the walls a couple of times and do the road courses
 inside the tracks come back out, hit the oval. Most of the time we're just racing road courses,
 which means that we have multiple elevations, multiple turns. There's times where flying like
 crazy, have to slam on the brakes and turn. Drop a bunch of gears, turn the car, get going again,
 all that kind of fun stuff. Well, with every four millacar race, there is one hairy, hairy place. And that
 is turn one. Now, in regular races throughout the season, sometimes you're going into turn one
 in your well ahead of people. There's been many times that I've been, you know, the lead car going
 into turn one. So I'm not really that crazy word about it or sometimes I'm behind the lead cars
 and going into turn one because somebody's just better than me and they get a much greater jump and they're
 good to go. However, in a championship race, it's a completely different story. That is the time
 where everybody racing is really good. So everybody at the front is doing a really good job.
 They're all pretty equal. So you know that when you get done into turn one,
 everybody else is there at the same time. It is not like spread out or a couple of cars, you know,
 going into it smoothly and taking off, we're all heading into this funnel and having to slam on
 our brakes and turn some direction and it can be hairy. It can be scary. I remember my very first
 championship race, how I was stressed out ahead of time because I know me and I know that I'm not
 back and off and we happen to race open real cars, which means if any of us touch, somebody's going up
 and that's the scariest thing. That's why open real cars are so dangerous. So it adds that element of stress
 as you go into that turn of gosh, I hope we don't touch. But I'm also going to fight like crazy to get
 through that turn and get out ahead of everybody else. This can be exactly how you feel that kind of
 stress that kind of freaking out, that kind of, you know, not knowing what's going to happen when you know
 somebody is trying to give you feedback. This could put both leaders and team members, doesn't
 matter who you are. Spouse, spouse, in laws, parents, it really doesn't matter. This is one of those things
 that can put you in a very difficult spot. If you struggle with receiving feedback. Now,
 I'm going to tell you, I don't know anybody. I don't know anybody who doesn't struggle at some level
 with receiving feedback. Like, not one. I do know a lot of people who struggle really hard with
 receiving feedback, right? So in last week's episode, episode 348, we talked about one of the most important
 principles in leadership and business is that if you get high quality feedback, it opens up
 visibility opening up visibility gives you greater opportunity. It creates greater opportunity. But getting
 that feedback and getting that visibility isn't always easy. So if you haven't listened to that episode,
 hit pause, go back now because this episode will be building off of the principles we covered in
 that episode. So one of the best, I'm so many, that you're still with me now. One of the best ways
 to create visibility and opportunity in your leadership and in business is through high quality
 feedback. But man, I can tell you this, leaders mess this up all the time. So today is your crash course,
 which no pun intended on that one. Now, if you can get this right, it can change a lot for you as a
 leader. As a team member, as a business owner, it can change your team's morale. It can change
 your team's productivity. They're buying all of those things can also change your client. So it
 could change your bottom line. So if we can do this right, then it can help us to grow in every aspect
 of our leadership and our business. Now, the reason we can mess this up is because so many times
 as a leader, we didn't have a very healthy leader who was teaching us how to receive quality feedback.
 Right? Who was teaching us how to grow from getting good quality feedback in, how to put in healthy
 boundaries and avoid the crappy feedback. Right? So so often we learn in model from our leaders that
 weren't healthy. So I'm going to start with sharing what receiving feedback is not. But before we
 do that, I want to share about our next level leadership live event. Folks on April 29th through May 1st,
 I cannot wait to host the fifth annual next level leadership live event here in Franklin, Tennessee.
 Now, in three days, you'll learn how to scale your business the smart way. Grow your revenue, build team
 unity, create a solid culture and show your team how and where to focus to win. Now, the content
 you'll get at this year's event is designed to make sure you have a healthy, well-rounded business.
 It will help you find solutions that actually work for your team, your growth and your business.
 There's a lot more info and until September 30th, you can get a great discount on your tickets. So
 learn more at Chrissacordo.com/liveavent. Again, that's Chrissacordo.com/liveavent or text live event,
 all caps one word to the number four four two two. Again, that's live event, all caps one word to the
 number four four two two two. So receiving healthy feedback is not arguing. It's not your point being
 main. It's not being defensive or an opportunity to defend yourself. It's not mentally finding a
 reason to write the person off. It's not thinking you're smarter than the person. It's not planning
 what you're going to say in response while the person speaks. And it's not an assault on who you are.
 If any of those are popping up inside of you, then you're struggling with receiving healthy feedback.
 Now, let me throw on the caveat again. On the last episode, I had the couple caveats in there and
 the big one that I'm throwing in here is that you keep hearing me say healthy feedback. So we're not
 talking about that toxic family member who's trying to set your reality or that unhealthy friend
 who's telling you all the advice on stuff that you just know is not good. We're talking about
 healthy feedback. So that's the caveat as we go through this. If you're struggling with any of those
 pieces that I just mentioned and it's quality healthy feedback, then you're the problem. You're the one
 who has to solve receiving the information. Now, if somebody who's trying to set your reality,
 somebody's trying to control you, somebody who just wants to demean you, then put a healthy boundary
 and buy not receiving it. But make sure you understand the difference. And the reason why that's
 important is because receiving healthy feedback is an opportunity to grow. Remember what I've talked about.
 Receiving that healthy feedback gives you visibility, which allows you to create more opportunity.
 Most people have a lot of experience giving feedback, but very little and receiving it. So I can promise
 you this. If you're a leader who does not pursue feedback, then you're actually not going to be very
 good at receiving feedback as well. So here's how you can know if you're good or not so good at receiving feedback.
 Ask yourself these questions. How often do you ask team members for feedback? Is it often? Is it
 something that you avoid like crazy? Are you trying not to get feedback? I know that there have been
 people in my life as a team member. When I've had leaders that if I tried to give feedback, I immediately
 like would cut my head off. I mean just boom, they didn't want feedback. And it taught me very quickly to
 anticipate that's not something I should be doing. They don't want it. They don't want to hear it.
 Get on what doing what I'm doing. I guess what? If you're struggling with that, then you're not
 getting that quality feedback. Now that's assuming that the feedback I was giving was quality,
 but they don't know, right? Because they immediately cut my head off and that was it. It was over
 with. So I stopped. I stopped giving quality feedback. Can you name two things you've changed based
 upon the feedback you've received? If you can't think of things that you've changed in your leadership
 personally, as a team member, that you've gotten from feedback from other people, that might mean
 that you're not getting a whole lot of feedback. That might mean you're either not getting feedback or
 you're choosing not to do anything with the feedback you're getting. Do you get nervous or do you look
 at it as an opportunity when people are sharing feedback? I can tell you for me, I'm constantly asking
 for feedback, whether it's on our meetings, whether it's an event, it doesn't matter what it is. I'm
 always looking for feedback with my leadership team. I always believe in taxing the collective
 intelligence. So I'm always looking at what you think about this, what do you think we can do here,
 how can this be better, how can we change this? So take a look at that. Are you nervous about people sharing
 feedback? Or are you excited about the opportunity that you could change and grow? Also, do you
 work about what your team members think about you or that they may have a complaint that they're not
 voicing? Or do you feel like you don't know where you stand with your team? If these are concerns
 that you have, if these are things that you're worried about, then it's probably pointing to the fact
 that you don't get a lot of quality feedback from your team or seek it. Now, again, once again, let me
 inject the caveat here. If you've got a team that doesn't give healthy feedback, they just want to
 give you crappy feedback or set your reality or whatever, then okay, I get that right. But if you have
 a healthy team that gives healthy feedback and you're worried about it, then I understand why you're
 worried. But once again, that worry is not helping you because these are all assumptions. You don't even
 know the truth. So get in there and get some feedback. Now, we're going to dive into six steps to
 receiving feedback. This is a fantastic repeatable process. So don't worry about remembering each step
 and the right question is to ask, you can get the free PDF download if you go to crystalkirtle.com/349.
 So we'll have that for you and you can have all of these different steps that I'm going to talk
 about right now. So the six steps to receiving feedback. Number one, commit to listen.
 Probably the biggest thing you need to do is commit to actually listening to what somebody has to say
 when it comes to feedback. Don't try hard not to speak until another person is finished. Now, once again,
 there are caveats that come with even this stuff here. If you have somebody that's running on
 for 30 minutes trying to tell you something, that's a different story. We're talking about a good healthy
 feedback. If somebody's going 30 minutes, they're probably speaking to you more about themselves
 or for themselves than giving you quality feedback. So if this is a healthy person, giving you quality
 feedback, listen to what they have to say. Number two, check your body language. What is your posture
 say? What is your body language encouraged? Does it encourage them to give you more and keep going?
 Or do they feel like they have to stop or tiptoe around something just to protect your feelings or your ego?
 So watch your body language. How are you responding to stuff? Number three, commit to finding the truth
 in what they're saying. They're probably going to say something that you disagree with. Now, for some people,
 the tendency is to go to that one thing that they can just prove, right? Don't
 commit to finding the truth in what they're saying. Many times you will see somebody who is saying something
 giving you feedback and you pick out one word or one thing and attack that thing and go,
 everything you're saying is wrong because of this over here. And come to find out the thing that you're
 pointing out really doesn't matter. Maybe they said something incorrectly or word incorrectly or
 said it was cold outside when it was actually lukewarm. It doesn't go attacking a piece of what they're
 saying just so that you're going to wipe out everything that they're saying. Try to find the truth. Try
 if you're really wanting to receive quality feedback, look for the truth and what they're saying.
 Number four, ask any questions that bring clarity to the truth. You're seeking. So,
 not trying to disprove or take apart their argument, you're only asking questions to give you clarity
 that you need to help you find the truth and what they are saying. So, for example,
 something you can say is what impact did that decision or action have on you? So, if you've made a
 decision and you can see that it's probably had an impact on somebody, ask the question.
 How did that impact you or you could even ask, what would you have liked to have seen happen differently?
 Ask those questions to try and gain quality perspective, to try and bring more clarity to the
 truth that you're seeing. The more questions that you ask, the more clarity that you get, the easier it is
 for you to not only receive the feedback, but implement it as well. Now, before we get to the last two,
 I want to tell you about one of the favorite things that we do here at the point of my group.
 Next level of life is our two-day personal discovery experience. It's a one-on-one
 personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover your root system,
 to get unstuck in life, and to discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace.
 Imagine this, what if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose? What would it look
 like to have healthier relationships with less conflict? Where would you be in a few months, a year,
 five years, if you had clarity, purpose and peace? Probably a big difference for more you stand today.
 Now, I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself, is there more?
 There is, and there is a better way, and it starts with next level of life. You can go to
 Chrissacorda.com/discover to take the next step. Now, if you're struggling with this contentment,
 regrets, or not feeling good enough, which most of you are, if you're filled with anxiety,
 or your relationships are lacking, don't keep going through the same motions every single day.
 Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace. Go to Chrissacorda.com/discover
 and take the next step. Alright, so we're talking about the six steps to receiving feedback. Number one
 was commit to listen. Number two was check your body language. Number three, commit to finding the truth
 in what they are saying. Number four, ask any questions to bring clarity to the truth. You're seeking.
 Now, number five, ask them if there's anything else they need to share, that they are maybe
 scared to say. If somebody is struggling and sharing information with you, or they're afraid
 to share information with you, they're just not going to do it. You might even ask them by saying,
 is there anything else you're scared to say? So help them to see that they can trust you in the
 process if they do share the information. Number six, thank them for their feedback. Do not pick
 it apart. Do not argue. Do not get defensive. Thank them for having the courage, openness, and honesty
 to share with you. Now, again, if after those six steps you as the leader need to point out some air in their
 feedback or give them more perspective to give them more understanding, then that's when you can engage in that
 way. Your team member will be a lot more open to receive your input once you have truly received
 there. So for those of you that are leaders, if a team member is giving you input and the input's not correct,
 right, speak to it. So you may have some leading to do on that, but if you don't, thank them.
 Receive it. Make decisions on what you need to change and what you need to fix. Now, once again,
 you can get the PDF download with these six steps to being a leader that receives feedback well
 and grows from it. Just go to christecrister.com/349. Again, that is christecrister.com/349.
 Well, folks, hopefully this has helped you today. I appreciate you joining me. I hope it has served you well.
 I encourage you to subscribe to rate and to share the podcast to help more people join our community.
 And as always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life,
 and join us on the next episode.