 how to finish this year's strong and inspire your team to do the same.
 More on that coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardos Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. Well, it is that time of year and it can happen to the best of us every year.
 Holidays get busy, people are out of the office, those leadership goals you've said in January,
 which for a lot of people, those aren't goals or actual dreams because we don't put anything to them.
 There may be limping towards the finish line if we're trying to accomplish them.
 Or maybe you're feeling a bit of burnout. Maybe you're getting towards the end of the year and
 you're stressing, you're struggling, you know you've got so much to do. It could even be that
 you're experiencing more stress as the year starts to close out. For some of us that have
 multiple businesses, the end of the year is a stressful time because of closing out businesses.
 So maybe that's where you are right now. You may hear that and think, well, that's me.
 Or maybe you've decided that you're not in the end of the year over one camp.
 Either way, here's how to know. Ask yourself some questions.
 First thing, are you still focused on the goals you set in January? So, if you set yearly goals
 and they're supposed to be done by the end of the year, how are you doing?
 Have you been setting initiatives that you can do every 90 days? Have you been focusing heavily on
 accomplishing all the things that you set down to get done this year? For us, we don't necessarily
 set them in January. We set them with our own internal straplans that we do. But for a lot of folks,
 they set them, they run and down at the end of the year and start moving on them in January.
 So my question is, is your team still focused on them? There's things that you want to do accomplish
 this year, how are you doing? Do you know every one's time off for the rest of the year? Are you confident
 that you have plenty of time in office to keep the original deadlines? Are you clear on project
 timelines and how they'll be completed with excellence before the year end? Is your team? Do they
 know the timelines? Are they focused on the things that they've got to get done to get these things
 done by the end of the year? Are you falling into the trap of the leadership crazy cycle?
 Now we talk about this a lot. It's the number one lesson that we have all of the folks in our next
 level mastermind group or our key leaders program go through for a reason. Until you get out of the
 leadership crazy cycle, it's really ridiculous trying to focus on pretty much anything else because you're
 not giving it the greatest effort. You are bogged down. You're losing out on time. What that leadership
 crazy cycle is is being overwhelmed. It's doing so many tasks and keep them on and talking about the
 leadership. So many of you have team members that you pay to do a bunch of tasks but as a leader
 for me your number one job is to lead people to success. Not to have your day completely bogged down
 with tasks. So if you are, if you're stuck in that, if you were overwhelmed, if you're feeling like
 you're getting to the end of the year and you haven't accomplished all the great things that you wanted to
 accomplish this year, if you're like, man, I cannot wait for the holidays just so I can have some
 downtime. If you get to the end of your day and somebody says, hey, what'd you do today and you're like,
 I really don't know. I know I did a ton. Then you're probably stuck in a leadership crazy cycle.
 If you have a bunch of stuff on your plate that you're doing that at the pay rate that you're being
 paid should be done by somebody else. You're probably stuck in the leadership crazy cycle. Oh,
 I'm starting to sound like Jeff Fox, or if you have too many tasks on your plate. That's my best
 Jeff Fox, or the right there. So if you said yes to any of the above, then guess what? That's where
 taking a look at your leadership and committing to finishing this year strong. But before we get
 deeper into today's content, I want to talk about leadership, folks, leadership takes commitment and perseverance.
 It isn't for anyone who is quick to quit. As leaders, we get overwhelmed by being stuck in tasks
 and all the things on our plate. And we spend way too much time putting out fires. But here's the truth.
 If we want to be great leaders, we can't stay there. Real leaders understand that staying stuck in
 overwhelm will never get us the results that we desire. To have great results, we have to become great
 leaders. Great leaders have the freedom to lead. They never stop learning. They strive to become expert
 communicators and they unify people to accomplish significant goals. In three days, get the tools that
 you need to see the leadership results you want at our fifth annual next level leadership live event.
 Become a leader that isn't chained to your desk. Lead with excellence and unify your team around the
 mission. Get your best leadership results by becoming a great leader. Learn more about the 2020
 next level leadership live event at Chrissacrilo.com/live events or text live event as one word
 to the number 4 4 2 2 2. Again, that's Chrissacrilo.com/live events or text live event as one word to the
 number 4 4 2 2 2. Now, we're going to look at the action steps to take to finishing this year strong.
 First, you have to lead yourself. Then, you can lead your team to do the same. It's common,
 normally what we do is we go directly to, well, I gotta push my team. I gotta get them going. I
 gotta get them focused on these things. If you're not leading yourself well, then guess what? How
 and the world are you gonna lead them to do a great job? The first thing you've got to focus on
 is closing out your goals. What are the goals that you set? If your goals are written on a piece
 paper and your top drawer, pull those things out, blow the dust off of it because I know it's been
 in there since January. Take a hard look at all the things that you wanted to accomplish this year.
 What can we do? What can we get done? What projects need a big push? What are the things that we
 still can accomplish before the year end? Take a hard look at those things and start asking questions
 like, what does it take to accomplish this goal? Is this still a top priority? That's probably where
 I want you to start first. It's actually prioritized the goals that you still want to get done by the
 year end and ask the question, what does it take to get this done? What kind of push do we need to do?
 What does the team need to be successful? What kind of encouragement do I need to do to get them moving
 on this stuff? What are the things that we need to do that we can get this thing accomplished? Do we
 have the time? Do we have the resources to accomplish this goal? So take a hard look, prioritize
 all the things that you still need to accomplish by your end and then start asking the questions
 to gain perspective what is needed to get this done. Now you may have gone even further and actually
 put these things into a project, you may have built the project out, you may have the details to get
 the thing done and it's still not getting done. So my question to you then is why not? Have you
 do you have a good system that should actually hold people accountable to doing the processes? Do you have
 a good system that holds people accountable to actually getting the goals done? Close out the goals by the end
 of the year? Number two, be intentional with the schedule or the calendar. Make sure that you're
 focusing heavily on what time is left in the year. We just finished up a strat plan last week,
 we're going into another one next week and one of the things we always do towards this time of the year
 is make sure that as we're setting all of these phenomenal goals for them to do for the next six to nine months
 that we take into account Thanksgiving Christmas time, time off, all the stuff that people are doing
 towards the end of the year. If you're closing out the business, whatever it is, so take a hard look
 at what time frames you have left of your team members that they can get these things done. Plus also
 take into account what they're already working on. What are the things that they still need to do?
 If they're focusing on things that aren't as important as closing out those big goals,
 then ask the question, why? Is it possible that you have team members that are task saturated with
 stuff that they shouldn't be doing? It would not be a surprise if a leader stuck in a leadership
 crazy cycle has other leaders stuck in a leadership crazy cycle or has team members that are task
 saturated. So take a hard look at the time left, the time available for the rest of the year that you have
 for your team members and ask the question, what can be accomplished? Also take a hard look at the
 project timelines. So again, by priority, what are the things that we need to get done? What's holding
 stuff back? What's holding is a team member waiting on another team member is a leader waiting on teams?
 What are the things that are holding up those project timelines? So take a hard look at that calendar
 and ask the question, do we have the capacity? Do we have the resources? Can we get this done in this
 time frame? Or do we need to start moving things around? You might have folks that are again
 focusing on things that they shouldn't be or it's not as important as the specific goal. So move that.
 Make the adjustments get them focused on it. Number three, coach your team. So folks, as you're closing
 out your goals, as you're taking a look at these things from your level, make sure that you sit down
 with your team and focus on intentionally teaching them how to close out their goals. They have goals as
 well. They should be sure that it have stuff that you've actually for me. I go through my team and I ask
 them to give me goals on top of the things that we are accomplishing that they want to accomplish
 for the next year. So go through and discover what are those things that need to be closed out.
 Be intentional with their calendars. Be intentional on teaching them how to close out their goals,
 on teaching them how to prioritize, on teaching them the things that they need to get done and the
 things that they may be working on that aren't as important as those goals. So make sure that you get
 in there and coach them on this stuff. So many times, as leaders, people just expect that their team
 doesn't write that they do it incredibly well. So my question to you is, if you're in this place
 which is probably most of the people listening to this right now, if you're in this place, then why are
 you surprised that your team is struggling to close out goals? So get in there, help them, teach them,
 coach them, show them how to, show them how to prioritize, show them how to push to get things done
 with the timeframes that they had. Also make sure that you're adding accountability where needed.
 So, as you've heard me say here before, the two top things that every business struggles with and I've
 been doing this for a very long time and I have yet to find a single company who does not struggle with
 these two things. The number one thing is a lack of high quality communication. The number two thing
 is a lack of quality accountability. So you've got to take a look at where are you lacking
 accountability, right? Where in your team are you not pushing people to get things done and holding them
 accountable to doing the right stuff? Where do you not have accountability on partization? Where do you
 not have accountability on? Are they actually focusing on timelines and making sure that they're
 doing everything that they can to accomplish that goal? Where are you making sure that they're
 hitting their care race? All of those pieces of accountability that need to be in place to make
 sure that you're accomplishing the things that you want to do. If you don't have the accountability,
 ask yourself the question, why? What is it going to take to get that accountability in place?
 Then make sure after you've done all of this to recast the vision to your team. This is the reason
 why we are going after this goal. This is the reason why we are closing this out. This is the reason
 why we have such a heavy emphasis. This is how this is going to affect the business, how it's going
 to affect our clients, how it's going to affect you as a team member. Do all the things that you can
 to help them to see this is the direction we're going in. They need to be able to see why you're moving
 in that direction. They need to be able to see what you're trying to accomplish. They need to be able to
 see why it's important. As you're teaching them, make sure that you're recasting the vision as to
 why all of this is important. Next level of life is our two-day personal discovery experience. It's a
 one-on-one personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover your root system,
 to get unstuck in life and discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace. Imagine this.
 What if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose? What would it look like to have
 healthier relationships with less conflict? Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years, if you had
 clarity, purpose, and peace? Probably a big difference for more you stand today. Now, I know it's possible
 because I've been where you are asking myself, is there more? There is, and there is a better way,
 and it starts with next level of life. You can go to Chrissacorda.com/discover to take the next step.
 Now, if you're struggling with this contentment, regret, or not feeling good enough, which most of you are,
 if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking, don't keep going through the
 same motions every single day. Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace. Go to
 Chrissacorda.com/discover and take the next step. Folks, finish this year strong. Don't let those fantastic
 goals you set fall by the wayside. Don't slack in leading and inspiring your team. Give yourself
 and your team the satisfaction of closing out this year strong. Hopefully this has helped you today.
 Thank you for joining me. I hope it has served you well. I encourage you to subscribe,
 write, and share the podcast to help more people join our community. And as always, take this information,
 change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next step.
 [Music]