 On the show today, we are talking with the phenomenal Claire Diaz Ortiz about how to build an effective long-lasting social media plan for your brand and not feel like you're blindly guessing at your social media strategy.
 That is coming up next.
 To the Chris LaCardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 Most business owners are blindly guessing at their social media strategy and it's costing them time and money.
 Based on Donald Miller's bestselling book, building a story brand, Claire Diaz Ortiz applies the seven principles of the story brand framework to help you
 build a long-lasting social media plan for your brand.
 Now, this is great stuff that we're diving in today with our brilliant guests, Claire Diaz Ortiz.
 Well, folks, Claire Diaz Ortiz, author of the forthcoming social media success for every brand, is an author, speaker,
 innovation advisor and angel investor who was an early employee at Twitter, named one of the 100 most creative people in business by fast company.
 She holds an MBA and other degrees from Stanford and Oxford and has been featured widely in print and broadcast media.
 She is the award winning author of eight books, eight books that have been published in more than a dozen countries.
 So I am honored to welcome to the show Claire Diaz Ortiz. Claire welcome.
 Thank you so much for having me, Chris.
 It's really fun to chat with you.
 I only wish we were in person having dinner as a new one.
 I'm so happy.
 Six months ago, you were going to feel like I'm a year or so.
 I see you in person.
 I know, I miss that.
 I remember the very first time we ever got together years ago and we were closing down coffee shops.
 It was the first, I don't know if you remember this, but this was so long ago that it was the first time I'd ever had an album in the latte.
 That was the new thing.
 It was the non-dairy milk latte.
 It's word new.
 Oh my gosh.
 That was the most amazing.
 Yeah, and now you can get an almond milk latte and pretty much any country.
 Pretty much anywhere.
 How are things down in the southern hemisphere?
 Good.
 I'm in the Paris of the South, Buenos Aires, Argentina, which is where the place I call home.
 And we are doing well.
 It's a very, very warm spring day.
 That is just crazy.
 We were coming out of, we were talking before we started this here.
 It was like hot, like crazy, and then all of a sudden dropped 40 degrees in the middle of the day.
 That was crazy.
 And that was crazy.
 And that was crazy.
 And that was crazy.
 Well, excited to have you on again talking about your latest book, which is social media success for every brand.
 The thing I always like to start out with is, why did you write this?
 Let me tell you, you know, the reason I wrote this book.
 So I am really passionate about the way that brands can use social media to grow their business and engage with customers and sell their products.
 And as a consultant in the space for a number of years, since I left Twitter, a lot of what I've been doing is then doing digital marketing consulting.
 And I kept seeing a version of the story I'm about to tell you, play out sort of in my consulting business.
 So, here's the story.
 One time I was working with a company, they came to me and they asked me to relaunch their brand.
 Basically, they had a really awesome widget.
 They were selling it, not selling as much as they'd like.
 And they felt that the reason was, they basically had really botched their launch.
 So they wanted to relaunch really their brands.
 All kinds of new ideas.
 We're going to relaunch it all.
 We're going to do it on social because social was really critical to this particular product they had.
 So they hired me. I spent a few months on really in-depth strategic plan for them.
 And it's the day of our big meeting.
 We're going to sit down and talk through my big plan.
 And if I remember right, this was like a 50 page plan.
 I came up with it.
 It had taken me a really long time.
 I was really confident in it.
 So we sit down at the table and we start going through the plan.
 And it became clear to me pretty early on that the folks at the start-up had not read too much of my plan.
 So I would say things like, well, let's talk about implementing point number six on page 16.
 And they'd say, well, we could think about that next quarter.
 Or let's do that and queue for things like that.
 And so this sort of kept going on.
 And eventually we got to kind of the apex of the meeting.
 When one of the co-founders was going to make his big point.
 I see him sort of sit up in his chair.
 And he says, well, Claire, I just think that if you could get Mark Cuban to tweet about us, then we would just blow up.
 Everyone would buy our widget.
 And this was to me, just kind of an example of the same type of conversation I was having with friends and startups over and over and over again.
 Because there is just this really mistaken idea that social media is basically only good for going viral.
 And furthermore, that going viral actually works.
 And so this book, the premise of this book and this book sort of starts out with me telling that story is really that, you know, social media success is all about building a long-term brand.
 And that has nothing to do with going viral, which it turns out pretty much never works anyway.
 It has been amazing to me because we work with businesses all over the place.
 And the amount of time and energy, I know you've seen this like crazy, the amount of time and energy people spend trying to make something go viral.
 Like the dollars that they pour into.
 This is going to be the thing or this video or this thing is going to be, you know, this is going to be thing that blows us up because everybody's going to love it.
 And I don't know about the you've written eight books. I can tell you the things that I think suck like when I write something, if I do something, I go, that thing's probably going to be, that's going to be crap.
 It's going to, it's the best thing that, you know, people love.
 And anytime I've tried to force something to be great, it just never, it never works, it sucks.
 So it's been interesting to help people go, you know, you're not looking at social media correctly.
 And the goal is not to make, if you get something viral, hey, fantastic, that's awesome.
 But like you're talking about here, you're focusing on helping the brand to make a long lasting movement.
 So yeah, and there are a few things that I kind of use as proof of why I think that's important.
 And you know, a couple of them have to do with what you're saying, brands would actually spend a lot of money and had failed viral campaigns to my favorites being, you know,
 gushers with those little fruit snacks and gushers came up with a product called the gusher eyeball and they promoted it to a bunch of mommy bloggers and one mommy blogger vomited, you know, because it was like so disgusting.
 And then there's another one that's my favorite is all of Gardens random act of pasta, which I mean, honestly, there's nothing that wrong with that idea, but it was a flop.
 And you know, finally, I actually did go viral. I had my first daughter in sort of a live tweeting viral storm. And so I saw firsthand that going viral can do nothing.
 So for me, it's, you know, going viral is just so obviously not the right solution.
 And instead, it's all about figuring out how to really market a brand well. And that's what this book is about.
 And the chances, like if you do get viral, the chances that turning into product cells is still, I mean, it's still slim chance, right? It's it's exciting thing that you went viral.
 But to actually help people to, you know, build that around their product or service where people are wanting that to actually make the purchase, how do people use social media to do that? How do they make that something that's a long lasting deal?
 So here's what I say in the book is that, you know, I give you a plan so that if you were to ever go viral one day, you could actually use that to your Apple.
 It actually capitalized on that. And it's all based on something I call the engagement ladder.
 And to understand kind of the engagement ladder, we're going to have to start at the bottom of the ladder, which is where you don't know anybody.
 And I think that the easiest way to kind of describe this, this part of the ladder, which is you know the right bottom, is to think of social media like a cocktail party.
 So many of us have been to cocktail parties and we know that kind of when you go into cocktail parties, your goal is to really to kind of make an impression in order to maybe make an connection, right?
 You're not going into a cocktail party. Let's say you've got a new widget and you want to ultimately talk to someone about it. You're not going to do that by rushing up to your ex-boyfriends, husbands, moms, former roommate and immediately, you know, telling them,
 "Here's smell my new healing essential oil or buy my new widget, right? That's not going to work at a cocktail party, shoving a product down someone's throat."
 Instead, you know, the way you really have, quote, unquote, success at a cocktail party is by going in, making a connection, maybe exchanging emails or business cards and maybe following up later.
 And so I like to say that social media is like a cocktail party, right? You're trying to get enough of a connection in the beginning to start a relationship.
 And that's kind of where this engagement matter, as I call it, really starts. It starts with someone's interest being peaked by, you know, your brand on social, so maybe by looking at your profile or by seeing a Twitter Facebook post, you make, you know,
 they're interest being peaked and then I'm saying, maybe I want to follow them, so then, you know, that's one run out the engagement matter. Then the next run out might be, "Hey, you know, I've been following their tweets for a while, now I'm going to start responding.
 That's another run out the engagement matter, right? They're becoming more engaged. Now you get to, "Hey, you know, I've been following their tweets, now I'm going to also follow them on Facebook."
 And maybe I'm also going to recommend their social account to a friend. Okay, you're moving up another, "wrong on that engagement matter."
 And then, you know, this is where it starts getting really interesting, where someone's saying, "Hey, I'm actually pretty interested. I'm going to click over on the link in their profile and look at their website."
 Okay, that's another run. Maybe I'm going to sign up for their email newsletter, another run. And you know, you keep going up until the top of the latter is finally someone making that purchase, right?
 And that's kind of the top of the engagement matter. And then ultimately coming back to buy from you, from your product and service again and again.
 So that's kind of the idea of the engagement letter and what I really want people to understand is that, you know, social media is all about doing the bottom part of that engagement letter, which is when you're really doing brand marketing.
 So you're telling people about your brand and generating awareness and engagement. You're not really doing the what we call direct marketing, which is that direct sale at the top of the engagement matter.
 And I think that is probably one of the biggest mistakes people have about social media is that it is, they think it's direct marketing when it's really brand marketing.
 And I think so many people back out of it because they don't have that tangible success by trying to sell immediately and not hitting that lot of like what you're talking about.
 Totally. So a lot of the folks that are listening, we have a bunch of entrepreneurs, we have a bunch of leaders.
 And a sumidly a bunch of them are looking at social media still today and going, there's just not that tangible sign to it.
 Is it as simple as just saying because you've tried to jump these bottom four runs.
 That's why you fail.
 A lot of times it's as simple as saying that I think there's another answer though. So it's a yes and the other answer is you might be on the wrong platform.
 And this is something that's really important in the book and the book I have an evaluation that people can go through, you know, to figure out your social media, your priority social media platform.
 Because the reality is there are four big, the four main, the big four social media platforms, Facebook and Instagram, Twitter and LinkedIn are kind of, you know, the most important.
 And then you've got some other ones that have one could say lesser importance, do you remember if users less engagement.
 But the thing is, is that different types of businesses are going to do really well on different platforms.
 So one of the big things I see is that yes, people are completely skipping that engagement ladder. They're just jumping on Facebook and they're just, you know, sending out a sales message every day, noon and not seeing sales and wondering why not.
 But you know, another thing they're doing wrong is there may be on Facebook when they should really be on LinkedIn.
 And so one of the first things I think people need to do is to take us evaluation to figure out what your priority platform is.
 And really learn that platform and learn how to create the engagement ladder well on that platform.
 Before you, before you worry about the others, you know, you work with all kinds of different entrepreneurs, but you know, you can sort of easily start to think in your head of different people you coach or different businesses you've worked with.
 And how they meet used different platforms differently, right? Let's say, you know, a mommy blogger or someone with some type of consumer product is probably going to see a hack of a lot more engagement and sales on Instagram.
 But they are on LinkedIn, right? Now in contrast and executive coach is going to live his or her life on LinkedIn and get tons of leads that way.
 Whereas Facebook might be pretty much a ghost town.
 And so one of the big mistakes I see is people choosing the wrong platform.
 Right. So what does it mean you talk about post and ghost? What does that mean?
 Yeah, this is interesting. You know, I think that we are in an age now where we're much more intentional about our time online, which I think is absolutely wonderful.
 I think we need to be more intentional. We need to not spend all our lives on social media 100% but I also think that if you are trying to create engagement on a social media platform,
 you also need to think about that engagement. So another common mistake that brands make is they might have a strategy for it. The posts they're going to post.
 But they then don't follow up at all with the people, right? So I may become a with 10 posts. I'm going to post this month for my business, but don't ever think about responding to the comments that come in from those posts.
 So I basically post and then I go step everybody and I sort of disappear. And so remembering that whatever social media platform you choose to kind of focus on really is a two way street and really is all about engagement is absolutely essential.
 You know, that the megaphone of social media, this idea we have of social media being a megaphone, it is true, but it's a conversation more so I would say them the megaphone.
 I think that's one of the tough things like for me there are days that I just get locked down like because I'm doing events and stuff like that.
 And it's tough for me to see that I miss out on the opportunities on those days when another day if I'm on and I'm just having a good.
 It doesn't even have to be a strong conversation just conversing with people and commenting back and forth, it just blows up, which has always been that's the fun part and it's also kind of know how wish I could get to it more as I go.
 So as if I am an entrepreneur, maybe I'm a solo per noir and I'm really wanting to utilize social media to help out my product or service.
 What am I looking at?
 Time wise. What am I looking at commitment wise?
 What is a, hey, listen, if you're not going to at least do this, just don't waste your time, but hey, this is ridiculous, don't spend this much time.
 So I think there's the upfront cost and then there's sort of the daily cost.
 I think upfront coming up with a strategy reading a book like this and then coming up with a strategy for your social media for your business, figuring out what your priority social media platform is and focusing on that one.
 That's, you know, an upfront cost that you're going to have to be willing to invest, right?
 But then after that point once you do that, I think it's super reasonable for businesses to do this in 15 minutes a day.
 Absolutely. And as you see engagement and as you see conversations and ultimately as you see developing people going up that engagement ladder and purchasing from you, then you know, you can make the decision of hey is that to my benefit.
 I've been if I just spend more than that amount of time is it to my benefit to hire someone to be able to spend more of my time on this, that kind of thing.
 It's pretty much, I mean, we can decently safely say if you're not on a social media platform with the way that the world is going.
 Somebody's probably going to create greater noise than you are.
 Yeah, and I think the other thing is that somebody's probably already talking about you on social media anyway, which is something that is worth it to consider.
 And a lot of times, you know, they're saying on social media is, you know, there might be might be some positive stuff, but probably a lot of people, if you're not there,
 or maybe, you know, having customers service complaints or questions that they need answered by your brand and you're not there to answer them. And so they come away with a kind of negative compression.
 I love that like when somebody asked a question about something that seems so negative, we've had that in the past where somebody will make a comment about one of our products or services that appears negative.
 If you jump on your response, you give an answer, all of a sudden, three more people are like, how do we get that thing?
 Totally right right. Yeah exactly.
 What are some of your top tips for attracting and maintaining like more followers? And is the greater number of followers, the important thing or the right or what does that look like?
 So, you know, what I say in this book is that the wrong question is always how do I get more followers? The right question is how do I get more engagement?
 The reality is that these algorithms for each of these platforms, they're always going to change, right? None of us can predict how, you know, Facebook is going to make its algorithm even worse tomorrow such that now instead of, you know, 80% of your post not being shown on Instagram. Now it's 99% whatever it may be.
 No matter how much these algorithms change, the things, the thing that will always stay the same about the algorithms is that they're going to favor engaged accounts. So your job should always be trying to create more engagement and not worrying about the following numbers as much as you worry about engagement.
 So for me, what I want brands to be doing if they're trying to grow a following is to be making sure that they are responding and liking and asking even further questions of the folks that are already engaging with them.
 Because ultimately on every platform where you engage, that gives your account some sort of algorithmic boost so that you are then shown to friends of friends. So one of the examples I share in this book is from Marshall Goldsmith he's a super popular executive coach.
 He's written a number of big best-selling books and he launched a executive coaching leadership program. Maybe about two years ago and he launched it in a blog post on LinkedIn and the concept of the program was that people needed to apply.
 So he writes this whole blog post. He posted on LinkedIn. I think at the time he had, you know, well over a million followers already and he posts his whole post he says, you know, come up.
 Here's the application link but he doesn't put in the link in the blog post. So you immediately start seeing, you know, from his one million followers, people read the post and then they start saying the comments, Marshall, there's the link to the application I want to apply, I want to apply.
 So Marshall didn't do this strategically but then he saw the strategic benefits later. Instead of just going into the blog post and adding in the link, he realized that actually, we better if he had someone on his team respond to every person who commented.
 And many, many, many, hundreds of comments with a comment linking them to the link which he had, you know, not not posted in the original post. And so what it did was, as he says, it created this just sort of incredible wheel.
 That every time he was responding to the commenter, many of them would would then comment back and every time it was then being boosted in their own timelines, right? And so that's just kind of a perfect example of how greater engagement is actually going to lead to greater reach, which is what's going to lead you to more followers.
 So focusing on engagement is to me really the correct path. I think that's one of the things that people just do not get about social media is that every time you do respond, it kicks it back up into the importance of the feed.
 So if you have 10 people that comment and you respond 10 times, that's 10 times that it's continuing to kick this up and make it more important. And not only I think they're feed, but also in their friends feed or whoever's following them or whatever.
 Right, it depends on the platform, but yes, more or less.
 So you did this based on Donna Miller's story brand. Talk about that. Talk about what the share model is.
 So story brand for those who don't know is this amazing marketing company and what they do is they help you to clarify your message.
 And they believe that you know, every brand needs a really clear message in order to effectively sell and infectively engage the customers.
 And one of the things that I had seen with many of my consulting clients who had used story brand as their marketing method was that once they would go through the story brand process and they would come up with what we call in story brand terms of brand script.
 So the script that you know, your brand uses to explain itself to the world is that then they would say, okay, I know how this applies to to my website and to my email newsletter because those were all things covered in the story brand process at the time.
 But I don't really see clearly kind of the how this how this works and there's a media. There's no real sort of plug and place solution.
 This book was was the answer to that problem. It was helping people who who both have used story brand before to come up with their overall marketing message and those who have not to to see how they can then use that within the context of social media.
 So I did that using using an acronym share, which stands for story, how audience reach an excellence and each of those steps takes you through a step of this social media for success process.
 So the first step is is coming up with your story brand brand script so clarifying that message and the next step is how so the next step is all about figuring out how to to best utilize the tools and the platforms that social media offers you.
 And for me, you know, the big big thing there is figuring out as I said, your priority platform. So taking the evaluation and the book figuring out which social media platform you really need to care about and doubling down on that one.
 So the third step in the model is called audience and this reflects something we say a lot in story brand, which is that your brand is not the hero your customer is.
 And in social media, you really want to make your social media about your audience and there are different ways to do that, but engagement of course is my favorite right so making sure that you are followers know how important they are.
 And I always prioritizing engagement with them and ultimately that leads you to step four in the process which is reach expanding your reach or expanding your following is is something that is important to brands but you know I believe as as we just talked about that comes through
 and increasing your engagement and making it about your audience. And then finally that last step is excellence and excellence is all about learning to kind of roll with the punches on social media realizing that social media is a real time information network.
 It's not a you know press release that you can tweak for two months and then put out into the world and never have to edit again and so making sure that you that you realize that and realize that you know social media values transparency and and it values presence to some extent.
 And that's kind of an overview of the model the book basically takes the reader the brand through these five steps to teach them how to use social media successfully on the big for social media platforms.
 And I think that's a very important thing to do is to do that.
 How do you convince them right now this is something you need to be doing your your missing out if you don't like what do you tell those folks.
 I tell them that social media is the most ubiquitous and the least expensive marketing tool they have to market their business.
 So if you're trying to to market your business and you're not using social media you are missing a huge opportunity.
 And then literally something like you say you can start off with just about nothing engage some folks and then as you build up.
 You know I start putting more into it more into it.
 I'm assuming you do more of the organic focus on the beginning.
 The book is really focused and the book in general is focused on organic we talk a little bit about advertising I do believe that advertising on social media accounts is a great way to expand your reach.
 But I believe you need the organic strategies in place first and you certainly need your content to be optimized organically in order for any of that advertising to work.
 And everybody listening I want you to hear that so this is what is so great about this book is that it helps you to get that going before you do something like going and spending tons of money with a marketing agency or tons of money on ads and wondering why in the world it doesn't work if you don't get the organic moving first.
 The paid just doesn't move as much now that's that's me personally.
 So start here this is the right place to go so clear can you give us just one simple thing that our listeners can do today to boost their brand on social media.
 One simple thing.
 To create create greater engagement and do that today on your favorite social media platform by going in and asking a question and then every response you get answering that question or responding to it.
 Fantastic well clear a couple things here one if you could go back to a young Claire what would you tell her.
 About any.
 That's a good question. What would I tell her about anything on an.
 Which what the young Claire to know.
 Stress less live more something some version of that probably right.
 All right and how can people get this book and get more of you.
 So you can get this book on Amazon you can also go to social media made simple dot com or we have a five part video series that walks you through a bunch of the core concepts of the book and then tells you.
 And you did buy the book said to learn more fantastic well thank you so much for joining us on the show.
 I appreciate it. I can't wait to your back up here next time we'll have to go get dinner again or close down a coffee shop either way.
 So folks there you have it social media success for every brand and let me say Claire knows she's put this thing together with amazing information for you to get moving right now.
 As I keep speaking about those of you that I know that have given up on it because I've talked to a bunch of you we've seen a bunch of you folks that have thought that you can't make it happen.
 This is an expert who's done it multiple times so get the book so should be to success for every brand will put some links on the show notes as well.
 Hopefully this has helped you today.
 Thank you for joining us as always take this information change your leadership change your business change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]