 Folks, we are getting real and vulnerable on the show today.
 We are talking about how to let go of control.
 And there was just way too much ground to cover.
 So we've broken this up into a two-part series.
 So be sure that you are listening in next week.
 Now on to today's episode.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 Today, we are talking about how to let go of control
 and joining me on the show is the new guy.
 [LAUGHTER]
 I said funny.
 It's funny because it's funny to me because we
 say to everybody here the new guy, but you're actually the first team
 member with me to start the business.
 And so having been gone for six years on missions and back
 for this upcoming year, it is fun to say that you're
 the new guy because most everybody here, nobody really knew you.
 I like to be the new guy.
 You are the new guy.
 And an entity there.
 But you're the old guy, too.
 You're the number one.
 I like that.
 You're number one.
 You're always number one with me, bro.
 So Brian Alex is joining me on the show.
 And he has been back in the States now for how long.
 Jesus was two months.
 Two months.
 Two whole months.
 Two whole months.
 Two whole months.
 And back here at the office, which is very fun and exciting
 for all of us to have you here.
 And today, we are talking about something that we have both
 experienced a lot of in life.
 And that's how to let go of control.
 How to kind of detach ourselves from outcomes where what we talk
 about in the next level of life is so many people.
 Whenever we have like a trigger event and we feel out of control,
 there's one of two ways we normally go.
 And that's either we try to control people or we try to control
 outcomes.
 And so many of the times we're focused heavily on controlling
 outcomes.
 So kind of just looking at this today.
 What does that look like?
 What does it look like if you're struggling with where
 God has you right now?
 And some of you, I know I've experienced this.
 I believe you have as well.
 There have been times in my life earlier on where I knew God had
 me somewhere.
 And it was tough.
 It was difficult.
 It was painful.
 It was I know I'm supposed to be here.
 And I've got to, I know he has a better plan for me.
 And I've just got a surrender me in that process.
 I'm sure you've experienced that.
 That's fun.
 That's fun.
 That's fun.
 That's fun.
 That's fun.
 That's fun.
 That's fun.
 That's fun.
 That's fun.
 That's fun.
 God's laughing right now.
 He's going, yep, it's fun for me.
 So you may be struggling with where God has you right now.
 Maybe it's not where you want to be.
 But it's where he has you.
 And I think a lot of folks listening to this.
 So if you're listening to this and you're saying, Chris, I actually don't know if God
 has me here.
 So that's great.
 The bigger piece of what we're going to be talking about today is what do you do with that?
 How do you handle that time?
 Some of you are going, yep, I know he's got me right where I am and I don't like it.
 I hate it.
 This sucks because it's not where I want to be.
 So how do you make sense of that?
 Some of you might be seeing that as just completely senseless.
 Some of you might be seeing that as having absolutely no purpose whatsoever.
 I know that when I was in logistics back in the 90s, I state, I'm really good at logistics.
 So in the early 90s, early to mid 90s, I was doing logistics doing ministry.
 And the thing is is that the logistics put the food on the table.
 It's surprisingly the ministry did not put the food on the table.
 That's a little bit tougher.
 But I knew that I was supposed to stay exactly where I was.
 I knew that I was supposed to stay doing a job that I didn't enjoy.
 Because I knew God was telling me that I wasn't freed up from leaving.
 And at one point, a gal that was in the office was just having a horrible day.
 And I just asked her what was going on.
 And I think I had made some comment about God or something like that.
 And she's like, "There is no God."
 And let's go talk.
 We talked for two hours, two hours.
 And she was born and I was born.
 And she'd re dedicated her life to God.
 There's times in life where you can experience something so painful or so disturbing or so
 what seems counter-God.
 Like this, how could this possibly be?
 And that can be the very time that you decide, I must take control.
 Forget it.
 They can't be a God.
 And a situation like that, God cannot possibly exist.
 And so after having talked through a bunch of understanding more God than understanding
 the horrible sunan law, then she was able to recommit her life to God.
 So interestingly, the moment I walked out of that conversation,
 I literally got a phone call at my office and it was a job offer.
 I had been at that business for years knowing that I hated it.
 I didn't enjoy it.
 I didn't like it.
 But I knew God had me there.
 And the moment I picked up the phone, I knew this is the release.
 This is the time for me to, I was here for, I'm sure more stuff than that.
 But definitely I was there for that conversation.
 But you didn't know that until that moment.
 Not a clue.
 Yeah.
 Literally in the moment, it's like, ah, this is it.
 And I would tell people, you know, people would say, why don't you just leave?
 And I'm like, God wants me here.
 Yeah.
 God wants me to stay right here.
 So there's kind of this here, there's this there, but there's also this in between.
 You're not here or there.
 And as I talked to my friends, going through tough times, that feels like the worst place
 is, I don't know if it's limbo or purgatory, it's in between.
 They don't feel like they're in disobedience.
 They don't know for sure that they're being obedient, but they're just in between.
 And so whether you hear there somewhere in between, there can be a sense of, yeah, senselessness,
 purpose,lessness in that, what do you do with that?
 Yeah.
 So that's what we're hitting, guys.
 If you are dealing with some struggles like this, you might be trying to control that outcome.
 If you're dealing with that in between, I like the fact that you use purgatory in there.
 If you're feeling that, you know, I don't have purpose, therefore, or it seems as though
 I don't have purpose, therefore.
 Yeah, this is just crap.
 What do you do about that?
 Now I can tell you, a lot of folks will try and control.
 How do I, how can I trust God?
 So for me, when we talk through next level of life, there's a couple of things that I say,
 everything comes down to.
 Now what I say that people like you're like, oh, you've got this here, Chris, I'm just going
 to tell you what I think, I think everything comes down to two things in life, not trusting
 that God has our best interest at heart and where we get our worth.
 And we talk a ton on the show about where we get our worth and how we try and get our
 worth from people.
 And, you know, we're constantly doing that.
 And because of that, it's, we can't.
 You literally can't get worth from another human being.
 You can only get worth by the one who created you and tells you what your worth is, but we try
 it anyways.
 And if you look at the, I'm out of control, so what do I do?
 Every single time we take control, we're saying that God doesn't have our best interest at
 heart.
 Right, we're pulling every lever, turning every dial, trying to get leverage on that situation
 because we feel out of control.
 Yeah.
 So we may never have even trusted God with whatever the thing is and saying it just feels, I think
 a lot of people feel stupid to say, well, I'm just going to trust God on this.
 It doesn't mean you're not diligent.
 It doesn't mean you don't continue to work hard towards it.
 It doesn't mean that you aren't spending a lot of time in his word and in prayer, but it does
 mean that you're letting go of the control piece of it.
 So if you are manipulating outcomes, what does that like?
 What does it mean to just be still and know that he is God?
 You know, one of the things we talked about earlier was the, you know, let go and let
 go ahead.
 Like, how does that play out?
 Like, how do people experience that phrase, that thought?
 Right.
 It's a nice, trite little saying that we've used it in the church for, you know, decades,
 but in actuality, is it completely passive posture or is it an active posture?
 What does it look like?
 You know, because every activity seems to be an attempt to gain control.
 So how are we actively still?
 That's kind of the crux of it, right?
 Yeah.
 How do we let go?
 Who teaches us how to let go?
 Well, I see you're struggling with something.
 Hey, just let go and let God.
 Well, thanks.
 Hey, thanks.
 I appreciate that.
 How do I do that?
 Well, you just got, you just got a trust.
 You just got to pray more.
 Right.
 You just got to, okay.
 Well, thank you.
 I appreciate that.
 So what does that mean to be still?
 For me, one of my favorite scriptures of all times is Psalm 62, 5, which is let all that
 I am, wait quietly before God, for my hope is in him.
 Every bit of me, all of my being, wait quietly on God.
 All of me.
 Yes.
 So don't take control.
 Don't let your mind take control.
 Don't let your desires take control.
 Don't let your heart take control.
 Let everything wait quietly before God because he is my hope.
 There is no hope beyond him.
 That's the crazy thing.
 And I think even as Christians, we have a bunch of people that listen to the show that are
 Christians, we have a bunch of people who are not Christians.
 But let me say especially to Christians.
 Or hope is not in what you accomplish in life.
 Your hope is not in having the best spouse.
 Your hope is not in having people approve of your kids and your parenting.
 Your hope is in the transition.
 We're only here for a breath of time.
 So your hope is in what's going to, what is it going to be like when I transition?
 And I think one of the things that a lot of folks don't understand and we preach this
 like her is hey listen, if you want to send me an email, feel free.
 Go ahead and send it to podcast@christacristo.com.
 But let me tell you something.
 One of the things we teach in a Western culture that is incorrect is that all you have to
 do is have faith and that's it.
 Say the prayer, say the prayer salvation that doesn't exist and you're good.
 Go on living your life.
 That is absolutely not what God wants from us.
 He wants every bit of us.
 He wants all of us.
 He wants all that I am to wait quietly before him.
 And a big piece of this is it's not just me.
 It's not just my being.
 It's my obedience.
 If I'm not being obedient to him in the process, then he's going to allow things to cause
 me to be obedient.
 But this is so cultural counterintuitive because our go-to is where those levers, the
 dials, the buttons I can push that will give me a desired outcome.
 The context that I'm coming out of in Europe, everything's built around that.
 So if you can't get your answer from here in this religious system, you go to a system of
 superstition or you go to doctors or you go to an issue right down the line trying to get that
 leverage.
 And I like the verse in Proverbs that echoes from Psalms, trust in the Lord with all your heart.
 Do not depend on your own understand.
 Well that I, that I mean that punches me in the gut every time.
 See his will in all you do.
 He'll show you which path to take.
 But that is so counterintuitive.
 I want to lean on my own.
 I want to figure it out, do the deal, get it done, get the results I want and move on because
 I feel that I'm in control and I get my worth from that and having the results that I want
 seems to be an objective that will make me happier.
 Put me at ease or give me peace.
 But does it?
 Yeah, it always does, right?
 Until, until there's the next thing.
 And then you're a hamster in a wheel.
 It's exactly it.
 The moment I start grabbing the levers to take control of what I want the outcome to be and I'm
 not seeking the one who created me.
 The one who has pursued me every second of my life.
 The one who wants me to realize his blessings.
 And that's another thing is that again in a Western culture we teach don't worry about
 the obedience.
 Even though Jesus himself, God himself said, guys, I want your obedience.
 I'm Matthew 517319.
 I expect the Jubiel, be it.
 It's not just enough to have faith in me.
 That's getting you in the door.
 That's getting you into heaven.
 But hey, take a look at how you're going to live in heaven.
 Paul talks about playing out your salvation with fear and trembling.
 When I look at that, it's a, hey, what is life going to be like when I get through the
 transition?
 If I'm trying to control everything on this and that means I'm not being obedient to him.
 Are we trusting?
 That's, we're not just camping.
 But then what does trust look like?
 I mean, it's a, it's a resting.
 Yeah.
 But it's not exactly passive either.
 Right.
 Right.
 So we are going to talk about that.
 That is a fantastic.
 I'm so glad you brought that up right.
 Yeah, thanks.
 Let's talk about that.
 Let's take a look at that.
 I've read it somewhere.
 So we are going to talk about that right after this.
 Next level of life is our two-day personal discovery experience.
 It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover
 your root system, to get unstuck in life and discover what's holding you back from freedom
 and peace.
 Imagine this.
 What if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose?
 What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict?
 Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years, if you had clarity, purpose
 and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today.
 Now, I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself, is there more?
 There is.
 And there is a better way.
 And it starts with the next level of life.
 You can go to crissacrita.com/discover to take the next step.
 Now, if you're struggling with this contentment, regrets, or not feeling good enough,
 which most of you are, if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking,
 don't keep going through the same motions every single day.
 Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace.
 Go to crissacrita.com/discover and take the next step.
 So we are back and we are talking with the new guy.
 That's me.
 The new old guy Brian Alex.
 He's on the show with us today.
 Again, we started this business on my back patio.
 Two laptops on a bottle of wine.
 We considered naming the company that.
 That's such a great day.
 Two laptops on a bottle of wine.
 Actually, creating everything that we get to have fun with today.
 And before you want on your mission strip.
 So we're talking about letting go of control.
 What does that look like?
 What does it look like to be still?
 What does it look like to rest when there's so much restlessness inside of us?
 What does it look like to when we have our desires, when we have,
 but isn't it good, Chris the whole world? By the way, some of you are following some thought
 leaders out there right now.
 And I'm going to tell you, this is you may not like this.
 But there is a lot of thought leaders right now that are telling you to go stand on the mountaintop
 and scream to the world who you are.
 That it is up to you to go tell other created beings, other human beings who you are.
 It's about you.
 Take care of you.
 Let me tell you, that's really bad teaching.
 Because what that's teaching you is it's not about God.
 It's about you.
 And some of these folks are coming from what they say is a Christian perspective.
 And then talking about how you need to throw your stuff out into the universe and see what
 it throws back at you.
 It's just beyond ridiculous to me.
 It is not about you.
 It's not about me.
 It's about the king of the universe.
 It's about the God that created 95 billion light years of space.
 You know, God that can create that is way bigger than anything I can possibly imagine.
 And he's the God who's amazingly incredibly in love with me.
 And I don't get it.
 But he's also the God who has a plan that is way better than mine.
 And so as we're talking about this, what does it look like to sit and wait?
 What does it look like to be still?
 What does it look like?
 We live in an age when focusing on outcomes is an endeavor of the highest value.
 Where if you're not controlling the outcome, you're stupid.
 What are you doing?
 If you're not the one who's forcing, gaining the most money you possibly can.
 If you're not the one who has the best house, the best car, the best whatever.
 If you're not controlling that, then what are you controlling?
 Right.
 And all of our culture is screaming back at us, reinforcing that same value that, I mean,
 and that's why everything gets so frenzy and fast-paced because we have to be producing.
 We have to be getting to desired outcomes, getting things done, rendering results.
 And the moment that we stop doing that, we stop being "productive," we look useless
 in our society, in the context of our society.
 And so it is really counterintuitive to pause and think and reflect and observe where we are,
 what's going on around us and being present.
 Nobody's doing that because it doesn't have quantifiable, measurable results or productivity
 attached to it.
 What is my worth if I'm not?
 If I'm not producing, if I'm not creating, what is my worth?
 And so as you may be sitting in a place right now where God has you that doesn't feel good,
 it doesn't feel purposeful, it feels purposelessness that there is this, you know, you're lacking.
 Then as we're all taught, listen, I praise God for the work ethic that I have.
 I have a great work ethic.
 I have no problem getting up and busting it and making something happen.
 But I also praise God that through the years he's caused things to happen for me to stop.
 The funny thing is, I pray for it all the time.
 I was early on in my early days of Christianity.
 I remember praying for patients.
 And somebody said, "You're praying for patients?"
 I'm like, "Yeah, well that's why all these things are going wrong in your life."
 I'm like, "Well that makes sense."
 That totally makes sense.
 But it wasn't a deterrent, right?
 It wasn't.
 Well, maybe for five minutes.
 Maybe there's a reprieve on like it as for patients for right now.
 I pray all the time, Lord.
 Help me to be still.
 Help me to do your will.
 Your will over my will.
 Help me to be more Christ like.
 Help me in so funny that over the decades he has allowed things to happen that have caused
 that.
 As James talks about, "Hey, when you go through trials, when you go through this stuff,
 don't pray for it to be over with, which we do all the time.
 God, would you please take this way?
 Wait a second.
 You literally just prayed this morning that I make you more like this.
 You literally prayed this morning that I draw you closer to me.
 You literally prayed this morning that I make you more Christ like.
 And now you're asking me, since I've allowed something to happen in your life, that
 is uncomfortable.
 It's painful.
 It's suffering as far as you're concerned, which I think a lot of the stuff we consider
 suffering is not nearly as bad as we think it is.
 Now I can ask you to mute it take it away.
 What's going to happen when the real tough stuff comes?
 What's going to happen when the real attacks come?
 We don't have any endurance built up, but notice the pivot there.
 Either we're focusing on ourselves and the productivity and not being, how would you call
 that useless in the moment I want to be fruitful, I want to produce.
 Or we look at the circumstances that we're in and if the circumstances appear to us not to be
 producing something where just as discontent because again the culture that we're in
 prizes, productivity over every other value.
 Maybe that's a product of our culture, maybe that's kind of the human condition, but that
 is not where scriptures pointing us.
 That's not where Jesus is calling us into relationship with him, into rest with him and so there's
 this undercurrent of discontent.
 We are hiring.
 We've just added two incredible opportunities in the Nashville area.
 One for a hospitality and events coordinator and one for a leadership development administrative
 assistant.
 To learn more about these roles, go to Chrissacrtle.com/employment.
 Read the descriptions, watch the videos.
 If you think you would be a phenomenal fit, then feel free to apply.
 We look forward to hearing from you that is Chrissacrtle.com/employment.
 Tom Rath and his book, Strengths Finder 2.0 talks about how we as Americans and I didn't
 really have a good basis to understand this until I went to the Middle East until I went to Israel
 and you know, spent two weeks going all over that country doing a phenomenal Bible study
 and excited about our going with our clients in you next year.
 So we're super excited about that.
 But to be able to see that there are cultures that don't have that same productivity drive as
 we do.
 Now, we believe as Americans, well that's our greatest virtue is that we are people who work
 like crazy.
 I can tell you over and over and over again through next level of life.
 We have, and we discover, is for our in-strap plan.
 My gosh, we see this all the time in the strapline, we see it all the time in the next level
 of mastermind.
 We see folks who are on that rat wheel of produced produced produced produced produced produced
 produced because that's where your value is.
 That's where your worth is.
 And every time I say this, every time I say, "Hey guys, you're never going to get to heaven
 and God's going to go, I'm so impressed with your bottom line."
 The face is the looks that some people immediately do like you just did, they just laugh at it
 because they get it immediately and some people really, oh my gosh, I've never thought about
 that.
 I've never thought about God is not so focused on my bottom line.
 I'm the one because who taught me and who taught me that productivity and don't get me wrong.
 I am somebody who produces a lot.
 I achieve a lot.
 It's just as I say at the top of the show, when you guys listen to the beginning of the show,
 business is what you do, it's not who you are.
 It's a piece of who you are.
 I'm a Christian, I'm a teacher, I'm a friend.
 There's so much more to me than just the producing side of stuff.
 So what happens when I'm stuck?
 What happens when I can go through, geez, I could go through half a dozen, probably
 half the top of my head, situations where all of a sudden something is not the way I want it
 to be, something's not right, something's not exactly how I desire, something's not exactly
 in my control and I don't know to do.
 Because of so much of the suffering that I've walked through and struggled that I've walked
 through, what I've learned is don't try to get out of the struggle, what is God showing
 me and because of that I've learned to trust.
 To look at a situation and go, it doesn't matter what I want, it doesn't matter what outcome
 I want, what does God want?
 It would be ridiculous for me to think that the king of the universe who knows the number of hairs
 on my head which is not difficult for him to do.
 Those created the 3.2 billion bits of code inside of my DNA doesn't care.
 What if we've got it all wrong?
 Exactly.
 What if my worth and my value doesn't come from the productivity or what I produce, but rather
 what he's making me to be?
 What if the work that I do isn't as valuable as the work that he's doing in me to make
 me a masterpiece that reflects him?
 But that is not something quantifiable in our culture.
 And so it's very difficult for us to kind of backpattle on the culture and swim countercurrent
 towards not just that destination, but the transformation that comes along the way because
 we're on pilgrimage going to God.
 It's tough for us in the culture that we live in to think that our us being a masterpiece
 is God's design as opposed to what we design.
 It's tough for us to believe that God has it, and again if I go back to the Middle East,
 community is hospitality is a lack of hospitality is in.
 I mean, we read it in the Bible and we don't get it.
 We don't understand it until we actually go in experience hospitality from a culture that has
 known it since the beginning.
 That's all they've known.
 They understand that to not be hospitable is horrid.
 It's ungodly.
 And for us here, we think that the ungodly thing is you didn't make more money this year.
 Or you didn't produce this thing.
 You didn't do your kids aren't in 17 different types of sports.
 You're hauling them all over the place.
 So kind of talk about that reflecting the master.
 Right.
 So I mean, the moment that we can transition mentally from the work that I produce is my value
 and where I get my worth from to understanding that it's his work done in me that assigns
 the value to me.
 I mean, the whole idea of worship, for example, comes from the root word worth in the English
 language.
 And so we're assigning to him in worship his value.
 Well, our worship is to reflect that beauty, the beauty of the master, the creator, and
 he designed me to reflect that.
 And so yeah, I mean, we have a, we cooperate.
 We have a work to do at the end.
 If I'm able to give any glory back to God and worship him, it's because I understand that his
 assigning of a value to me is the only real intrinsic value that I have, not from what I produce.
 And I love some other metaphors that are kind of helpful here to wrap our heads around.
 I was reading one author, Stephen Lawhead, at the end of some fiction series.
 He's got, I think it's called bright empires.
 He wrote an essay about pilgrimage and I'll stretch our patience here just to read a little
 bit of a quote.
 But he talks about how the destination was important, right?
 We all kind of look towards that destination as being the prize or the objective.
 But he goes on and says, but it was the journey itself.
 The physical act of going that transforms pilgrims.
 But gosh, that pilgrimage is drudgery.
 Oh my gosh.
 There is so much monotony.
 It's the mundane.
 It's the work and the labor that goes to it.
 But he's saying that's kind of the transformative process.
 I mean, we see this from other writers as well.
 There's the Nietzsche quote.
 It never in a million years, what I have thought that I would have a Nietzsche quote, but it's
 great.
 This is good stuff.
 Yeah.
 So he says the essential thing in heaven and earth is that there should be a long obedience
 in the same direction.
 There, thereby results and has always resulted in the long run, something which has made life
 worth living.
 And I love that Eugene Peterson had to been 25, 30 years ago, wrote a book by the title
 same, the same little sentence here, long obedience in the same direction.
 And he picks up on this idea and just flashes out what obedience looks like.
 But it's not the way that we frame things.
 I mean, even in the church, we frame things in terms of heaven and hell.
 Where would your rather be make a decision?
 Right now, let's go.
 And it's just that end result, end result.
 But this is not the way of Jesus the rabbi.
 This is not the way he taught his disciples, right?
 Yeah.
 I think that's probably one of the most difficult things.
 And so I want to be very, very insanely clear when I say this because again, in a Western
 culture, if I say this in an Eastern culture, they're like, yeah, totally.
 But in a Western culture, we have screwed this up for 1900 years now.
 Where the, you know, so let me be very clear when I say there is no salvation by obedience.
 Faith is what gets us transitioning into heaven.
 The opportunity that Christ gave us is that we could spend eternity with them if we choose
 it by faith.
 But we stop there in a Western culture, we stop right there and we go, that's all you need.
 And so like you're saying, we give these two options either choose faith or choose hell.
 And then we stop.
 And Jesus says Himself again, Matthew 517 through 19, do not believe that I came to abolish
 the law or the, you know, the Torah of the prophets.
 I came to fulfill it.
 There is no abolishing.
 There is none of that happening.
 That's not going to happen until heaven and earth pass away, which this is really difficult
 for a lot of Christians to understand that God's going to wipe away the universe and then start
 over again until that happens.
 Those who are disobedient and teach the same thing will be considered the least in heaven.
 And those who are obedient will be considered and teach the same will be considered great in heaven.
 The peace that I think we keep missing on this journey is believing that we are so in control
 of our own lives and as long as we have faith nothing else matters.
 Why know I'm going to heaven.
 There is so much more than that teaching of just going to heaven.
 Jesus Himself says, and there's a lot, it's funny.
 There's a lot of scripture that people try to use in bend and say, "Well, this is what Paul says.
 Listen, first off, if Paul ever contradicted Jesus, who would you listen to?"
 Which he doesn't, people take it out of context.
 But if he did, who would you listen to?
 God or disciple?
 Well, I'm going to still go back to the God peace, but he still doesn't contradict that.
 But we use stuff that contradicts that.
 And so that we can have control of, well, I don't want to do that.
 I don't want, you know, one of the things is like we talk about the 10 commandments.
 You go to any church in America, as I say that I'm questioning.
 You go to almost any church in America, and you say, "Hey, do you believe in the 10
 commandments?
 Do you follow Sabbath?"
 Nope.
 But it's more a law.
 Yep.
 But nope, it's not.
 It was taken away.
 When was it taken away?
 And the scriptures used for that are actually ridiculous.
 There are things that in no way shape are forms so that that ever happened.
 Now, please feel free to email me if you want to talk about this.
 This is great.
 The bigger focus that I'm trying to point to is God set up the obedience side for us of seeking
 Him and the blessing that is the obedience.
 When you follow me, there's more blessing that comes.
 There's more stuff that comes for me that is more of a blessing to you.
 If you follow what I'm saying.
 If you start grabbing levers and start taking control, guess what?
 That's where you're going to struggle.
 That's where you're going to have pain.
 That's where you're going to be out of control, thinking that you're gaining control by grabbing
 those levers.
 That's where you're going to be more out of control.
 I've set this up.
 I've got a path for you.
 Follow this.
 Go distraction.
 And unfortunately, we teach people.
 Don't worry about that.
 Just make the decision and then you're done.
 You're good.
 Go to church every single, which by the way, folks, you cannot actually go to church.
 You are the church.
 You go to church every week and then you're golden.
 That's the key.
 Otherwise, you're going to hell.
 All of these ridiculous pieces that puts control back in our hands.
 And it's just that focus on outcomes.
 Heaven and hell, that's important.
 How do we get there from where we are?
 And again, it's not a works mentality.
 It's by grace alone and faith alone in Jesus Christ.
 But there is a process that he's wanting to work out in us all along the way.
 And so when we pivot back to a business side or a leadership side with this concept, what
 we find is that control and these levers and a focus on results, these are poor masters.
 They're poor motivations.
 And one thing that you push back on all the time with each of the personality types is that
 just another way for you to feel like you have control, which may in the end be more of an illusion
 than anything else.
 But it gives you a sense of stability, worth value, all of that.
 But again, these are poor masters.
 And so what we're trying to point to is what's underneath that.
 And if we can speak to what is the motivation, it's going to transform our sense of being,
 our sense of value, our sense of worth, it's also going to transform how we treat others.
 Because we're not pressing towards that outcome necessarily, but we're pressing on the
 value and we're pressing on this deeper understanding of, I'm being transformed.
 And he's working in and through me and he's producing me into something, not the works of my
 hands, but I'm the work of his hands.
 Right.
 And I think that's where we get so messed up in this, is that we keep thinking that we must
 create what our life is, that we must listen.
 It was difficult for me to step what people considered down from a very large platform.
 And I felt God calling me saying, this is what you're going to do.
 You're going to go work.
 Just one on one with individuals with companies working directly with them, deeper, much more
 focused on the things that I want you to focus on.
 And people thought, well, that's just ridiculous.
 It's all about being back on that stage in front of 10,000 people.
 And that's the place to be.
 What was it about?
 It was for me, it was I could be on a stage loving it, loving because I'm a teacher.
 The stage for me is a happy place.
 So I can be in honest stage teaching people, you know, if it's 100 people, if it's 10,000
 people doesn't matter.
 And I love that moment.
 The place I struggled was I could step off that stage and somebody say, Chris, can I ask
 you this one question?
 And I could have been teaching for hours and they go, help me with this and I help them
 and they go, man, that was the most powerful thing that I just experienced.
 Doesn't mean that everybody didn't get their lives changed.
 Doesn't mean that that's not a great mode to get people great information.
 Please do not hear that incorrectly.
 Fantastic.
 But what I felt in those moments over and over and I can't tell you that dozens of times I would
 be in those conversations.
 And I would just hear, while I'm talking to somebody, you're going to be leaving and doing
 this.
 And I'd be like, that's just ridiculous.
 I can't be you, God, because all of this is great and fantastic.
 But the great thing is that I never cared about being, I didn't care about the celebrity.
 I didn't care about the the fame side of it.
 I cared about changing lives.
 And so when I pushed back for the longest time and finally he's like, you're going to leave.
 You will leave is literally what I heard.
 I realized I've just got a trust.
 You want to talk about one of the most difficult faith moments.
 And the great thing is is that while it was tough, I was making it.
 I was making this decision.
 I know this is right.
 I'm going to do it.
 But man, this is scary.
 This is faith and obedience.
 Right.
 And it wasn't I had made plenty of money.
 I had plenty of things in life.
 There's plenty of stuff.
 Plenty of accomplishments.
 It wasn't that.
 It was what's going to happen to my purpose now.
 What's going to happen with my, you know, and I didn't.
 I didn't need to take control.
 I had done that for three years when he told me that I was going to be leaving.
 Because because worth and value, he'll jeopardize and so you see control.
 Exactly.
 Yeah, exactly.
 And so I just finally said, forget it.
 Just trust and just step away.
 It's a difficult painful, you know, plenty of tears between me and Dave and all kinds of stuff.
 But I knew it was the right thing.
 Goes against everything and our gut.
 Everything.
 Yeah.
 Everything in my gut.
 The heart side of me that was going, you're telling me to do something that is just trust
 you.
 What's going to happen?
 What am I going to do?
 What am I going to do for a platform?
 How am I going to get clients?
 How am I going to, you know?
 So do not lean on your own understanding.
 Yeah.
 Oh my gosh, that's so difficult.
 Because every thought, every tape that plays is looking for the levers and the strings
 that are going to keep the boat upright, keep sailing in the direction that we think we should
 go.
 But there's a way that seems right to a man.
 Yeah.
 But it may not be the end that he's calling you to.
 Yeah.
 This isn't like you say in my own understanding.
 I don't understand this.
 I know you're saying it.
 I know I'm going to do it.
 I just don't get it.
 So we know it's right.
 And there's, you know, there's something inside of us, I think, that depending on how close
 or how far away we are from the Lord, I feel like there are times in our lives.
 Or we know to do so.
 We don't really, we can't rationalize it.
 It doesn't make sense, but it just, there's something that I know this is something I have
 to do.
 And there's this element of faith and obedience that then comes in.
 And even some of the values that we build in our businesses about treating others right,
 even when it hurts the bottom line, it's counterintuitive.
 But what we're saying here is that if we will be faithful to something bigger than us,
 to God, to his word, to his law, he is faithful.
 And so all of a sudden, taking our eyes off of that objective, the target, the goal that we're
 shooting at, and thinking about how we're doing it is so helpful.
 And you talk about this all the time in your events that it's not really getting to that
 bottom line as much as it is taking care of people.
 Right?
 That's a huge value here.
 And we see that it does affect the bottom line.
 Eventually it has results that are good for us and good for other people, even when it hurts.
 As a leader, you've seen people come and go.
 And at the end of the day, what you have to be faithful with is, God, did I steward the souls
 well while I had them here?
 And again, people coming in here that all the time.
 We are helping businesses to grow their bottom line.
 We are helping businesses leaders to have more profitable businesses.
 We've had helped tons of businesses to grow immensely.
 But one thing that everybody will hear me say is listen, I want you to make as much money
 as you want to make.
 But understand at the end of the day, God is more focused on how you take care of this people.
 Take care of this people.
 He'll take care of your money.
 I don't remember.
 I've got to go back and look at this because I can never remember who the king was that the
 profit comes to him that paid a serious 700,000 silver pieces for their fighters to come down
 and protect them and the profit that comes along and says do not receive them.
 He's like, what are you talking about?
 I paid them 700,000 silver pieces and the profit says, do you not think that God can replace
 that?
 Just that powerful thing of going, we teach, know the bottom line, the bottom line, the bottom
 line, the money, the money, the money.
 And as we say around here, profit is not our number one motivator.
 Worshiping God is loving people is number two.
 Profit is that best number three.
 Now that makes it, you know, little sticky on how to, you know, you got to make sure that
 you're making.
 I'm never going to operate a business that's not profitable.
 But if it's my number one motivating factor, then the other two definitely are not.
 It's never a good master.
 It's never a good motivator.
 That people become just a means to that end.
 Right.
 Yeah.
 Well, you've been listening to part one of how to let go of control.
 Now we are going to stop here.
 There's so much information.
 Wow.
 That was a lot.
 So we are going to pick this up again next week on the power of stillness.
 So be sure that you join us then.
 (upbeat music)
 (dramatic music)