 How not to get to you, Rale, during the holiday season, more on that, coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life,
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. Hope you're having a fantastic day where you are.
 Today we are talking about how not to get derailed during this season.
 Now, we're actually going to do this in two parts. So today I'm going to be talking about
 three major categories, not overspending, not overcommitting, not overindulging. So those are
 three things that we're going to be focusing on today. With what I feel is some important
 information that you need to hear, and then on the next episode, we're going to talk about the
 emotional side of it of, you know, some of you're going to be spending some time with some people
 that it's going to, you're going to need some healthy boundaries. Some of you might be the ones
 that need the healthy boundaries. So we're going to talk about that next week as well. But today,
 we're talking about not overdoing things. And I'm not going to get all screwed on you in this episode,
 but we're going to talk about how to have an incredible holiday season without getting de-railed,
 without being stressed out, without getting on the other side of it and going, "Cruid every year
 it hits me." It's a pain in the butt. So the three major categories are, again, spending,
 you know, how do we make sure that during this time of year where it is becoming more and more
 focused on the commercialization side of this season, how do we make sure that we don't spend like crazy?
 You know, how to make sure that we're not overspending on on gifts or just stuff, period,
 because there's so much pressure and so much, you know, "Hey, this time of year you'll feel so much
 better if you just buy more stuff." And you know, you have, you may have kids that are having
 high expectations because we didn't set them well in the beginning of the year or, you know,
 whatever it is, whatever it looks like, how do we not overspend? How do we not overcommit?
 We've got activities, we've got parties, we have family plans, we've got all kinds of stuff.
 And then, a very, very big piece. This is the piece that people don't understand very well,
 because not a lot of people talk about this. How do we not over indulge when it comes to food,
 especially the sugar, especially the cakes, the pies, the cookies, all of that stuff? Why is that so important?
 Because I can promise you that's affecting everything else as well. It's affecting how you respond,
 it's affecting your happiness, it's affecting how you make decisions. So can we get through
 this season without eating tons of crappy food, feeling terrible, and without going way over budget,
 and feeling overextended and stressed out, what you're going to talk about that right after this.
 I've never seen a leader that's had everything that they wanted. Out of thousands of
 leaders that I've coached, most are probably a lot like you. You wish you saw greater productivity
 unless drama from your team that you didn't spend your energy putting out fires, that you had
 more time to invest in your family and the things that you enjoy, and you felt more equipped to lead your team
 to success. The only thing that's holding leaders back from the results they desire is having the
 right tools, and you can get those tools at the next level leadership live event. So if you're young,
 old, new, experienced, struggling, or really successful, this event is for anyone who is ready to learn
 from 25 years of best practices that get proven results. It's not about short-term fixes. In three
 days, I'm going to teach you how to have sustained revenue growth to generate greater productivity from
 your team and get immediate momentum toward the results that you want. It's going to be detailed,
 practical and loaded with how to's. From the lessons we're teaching, our clients have seen an average
 of 46% increase in growth profit in one year's time. That's one year's time. These clients are a normal
 everyday businesses and your business can have the same level of success. So if you're ready to see
 those results, go to crissacrido.com/events and get your tell to this event and invest in your leadership
 and your business that's crissacrido.com/events. I can't wait to see you there.
 So we're back and we're talking about overdoing things. When you're overspending,
 when you're overcontaining, most likely, at least those are your values. You're not living with
 in your values. You're not living in line with your values. Here's how to live out your values even in holiday
 seasons and difficult seasons. We're going to talk about the action steps today. What's the first
 thing you need to do now? If you're married or if you're engaged or whatever, or if you have a really
 good accountability partner, then the first thing that we're going to focus on is the spending side
 of stuff. So let's just come talk about that for a moment. When it comes to spending, as you hear us talk
 about all the time here, your worth does not or should not come from the opinions of others.
 Well, why do we spend so much money at this time of year? Why do we spend so much money on
 gifts and making people happy or putting decorations up all that kind of fun stuff? Because we are
 basing a lot of our worth in the stuff. We base a lot of our worth in what we give to somebody.
 Did we get them the right present? Did we get the kids the right toys? I'll never forget what
 day we were going through opening gifts and my nephew was autistic. As he opened up presents,
 he opened up one and he goes, "Boring." And through to the side. It was just a funny moment. Everybody
 just bust out laugh and because we were looking at this situation and going really, I mean,
 it's an interesting perspective to see it from his side of things. Where the gift was born. What was
 he looking for? He was looking for excitement out of a gift. We are hoping that any gift that we
 give to anybody is going to bring excitement. That it's going to bring more love from them, more appreciation
 from them. They're going to think more highly of us. Some of you, on the other hand, you're like,
 "Oh my gosh, I have to give stuff. I have to go buy stuff. I have to wrap stuff up."
 Either way, start with instead of overspending this holiday season, start with asking yourself
 the question, "Why are you doing it? Why are you spending money outside of a budget if you hopefully
 you have a budget? If you do not, financial peace and diversity do it, get in it, go through the class,
 make it happen." Whether you've been in financial peace and diversity or not,
 here's the thing you need to know. Why are you spending all this money this month? Why are you
 spending all this money during this season? If your goal is to worship God, I can promise you he's not
 really impressed by the money you're spending. That's not what he's looking for. He's not looking for
 you to worship him by buying plastic things. He's not looking to you to worship him and appreciate
 him and honor him by going ballistic, spending a ton of money, going into debt for some of you, going into
 or actually probably a lot of you, going into debt to buy people stuff under the name or the guys
 of worshiping God. So if you're doing it and the thing you're telling yourself is, this is all about God.
 No, it's not. It's just not. Oh, Christ, you're so wrong. You don't understand how when I buy gifts
 for somebody, it just brings them warm fuzzies and they feel so good inside and I'm showing them the love
 of Jesus. I don't remember. Don't remember anywhere in Scripture where Jesus won people over by
 buying them gifts. Now, maybe I'm wrong. Of course, I'm not. But how are you convincing yourself that
 by buying people gifts you're showing them the love of Christ? So really, as you sit down as an individual,
 or with a spouse, or with an accountability partner, whatever it is, start with why, the why
 am I or why are we choosing to spend all of this money? Now, with that said caveat, if you got tons of
 money and you want to give people gifts, there's nothing wrong with that. But we're not talking
 about that. We're talking about over spending. Right? Now, and you could have lots of money and
 still overspend on buying people gifts. Right? The key is, if you're feeling the pressure,
 if you're convincing yourself that this is something you have to do, if you're convincing yourself
 that if you don't do this, you're not honoring God in this time of year, all of that stuff is lies.
 All of that is stuff that you're telling yourself that you need to really work through. Why do I believe
 any of those things? Why do I believe that spending money on gifts, plastic stuff for people or
 stuff that people don't even really want or even stuff that people really do want? Maybe you buy
 somebody that great computer that they want? Why do I think that that's honoring God?
 If that's the lie you're telling yourself. The lie you're telling yourself is, if I don't buy these
 things, these people won't love me, well, hey, it's either a lie, yes, they're still going to love you.
 If you don't buy them a bunch of stuff. Or if they don't love you, why in the world are you spending
 your time focusing on that person in this way? So no matter what it is, sit down and ask yourself,
 why am I spending this money? Why am I doing this? What is the purpose behind it? What is my belief
 behind it? I can tell you, for me personally, the best gifts that I have received have always been
 gifts of the heart. Somebody makes something or somebody's kid draws me pictures or somebody
 pulls something together that's like from a specific memory of something that I've experienced or
 being that person of experience together. Those have been some of the best gifts I've ever received.
 Don't get me wrong. I love gifts. I'll ever see even gifts. I love giving them a big gift,
 give her. I give lots of gifts. But I always start with the question of why am I giving this gift.
 After you've walked through that, if you're like, okay, well, we're going to be spending money.
 We're going to be buying gifts. This is still something we're going to be doing. Great. We've got the
 why behind us. Great. We understand that. Where's your budget? What should your budget be?
 If you have not been through financial university, if you're not living on a budget, if you're not
 spending every dollar next month, this month on paper, then sit your butt down and ask yourself a question.
 How much money do we have? What is reasonable to spend? What is money that we actually have?
 Don't go to credit cards. Don't go to debt to go buy people gifts. That's just ridiculous.
 It's amazing to me. How much people will shop for a great deal online? We have these black
 Fridays, these cyber Mondays. People will shop for a great deal online, put it on a credit card,
 and then pay 10 times the amount of what they purchased because they pay interest on this thing for the next
 two years. That doesn't make a whole lot of sense. Does it? Put down a budget. Spend cash.
 Spend the money that you have. Put down a budget. A degree upon it. Make sure it's not going to affect
 your spending in any other way. Make sure that it's not going to affect your household income. Make sure
 it's not going to affect your lights and putting food on the table and all that kind of fun stuff.
 Once you do that, end your in agreement with your spouse or girlfriend, boyfriend or whatever it is.
 Accountability partner. Now you have a good parameter or a decent guardrail for you to go by to spend.
 That will keep you. Should keep you from over spending. Keep in mind if you have travel in there,
 then you're going to have to count that as well. Are you flying or driving somewhere? Are you staying
 in a hotel? All that fun stuff. That should help you to keep from over spending this holiday season.
 Now, over committing. What are you committing to? As you look at the next 30 days or whatever time
 frame that you're spending time committing to things, need to ask yourself once again. Why?
 This is going to be a theme. Why am I committing to the things that I'm committing to? So the saying
 every time you say yes, you say no to something else is absisting and literally true. Right? You can not
 stretch out time in the day. Only God can do that. So since you can't stretch out time in a day,
 you have to ask yourself why are you committing to the things that you're committing to?
 Is it again because you feel guilty? Is it because you're afraid of losing worth? Is it because you're
 trying to gain worth? Is it because you feel responsible for other people's happiness? What's the reason?
 What's the why behind the commitments that you're making? Sit down and start going through why am I
 committing to? What I'm committing to? Start with the why because otherwise if you can't figure this piece out,
 the what's not going to matter. Why am I committing to these? Why do I feel like I need to? Why do I feel like I
 need to be at this function? This thing over here, right? This party, this 17 parties, whatever it is.
 After you've come to a place of working through some of the lies that you're probably telling yourself,
 oh, if I don't go over here, they're going to be so mad at me. Oh, I have to do this because otherwise
 so and so is not going to be happy. Whatever that stuff is, then choose by prioritizing what is the
 stuff that you should go to or what you want to go to or what you feel is healthy to go to. So instead of
 over committing and then having to bounce from place to place and just stressing yourself out and not getting
 good rest and you know feeling in January like you need to take off all of January because of everything
 you did in December. Sit down and find out why you commit to what you commit to and then prioritize
 what you feel like you should or need or desire to commit to and if there's way more stuff then you can do
 then those lesser prioritized things you don't do. You don't do them. You help people to understand.
 You have other commitments. You have other things that you are doing that you can't make it to these
 other things that you can't make it to their party or whatever is going on. So sit down and again to find
 why but then prioritize all the things that you feel like or potential commitments or things that
 people are asking you to commit to, prioritize them, put them in place. What doesn't make it doesn't make
 it your health, your frame of mind, your stress levels, your energy levels are all going to be incredibly
 important to get through the season. Why? Because today it looks considerably different than it did
 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 years ago where we didn't have as many commitments. Now we go ballistic during
 this time of year. We go crazy. It's like the parents that have their kids in 17 different sports every
 single week. Why? Because some reason we feel like we're bad people if we're not doing all of this stuff.
 And then we go and do all of this stuff to try and make people happy and then we feel horrible about
 ourselves. We don't get good sleep and we don't feel healthy in all that junk. So guys, instead
 make a decision, choose to be healthy before you get through the month. Make sure that you're setting
 yourself up to be healthy. Make sure that you're setting yourself up to get the rest that you need.
 Make sure that you're setting yourself up to spend time with God. Make sure that you're setting
 yourself up to have a healthy season. Not one that you get through and are once again tired of the
 season and ready to get be done with it because you need to sleep, you need to slow down. So focus on those
 things that will help you to keep from overcomitting in this holiday season. Now the third thing
 overindulging. There is a reason that we eat so much food, right? Now, what we would normally
 say is because it's good. Here's where I'm going to step on a lot of toast. Folks, a lot of toast. Now,
 what you're not going to hear me say is that you can't eat anything unhealthy. That's not what I'm
 going to tell you. It is the season. You know, if you do things well and if you do it correctly,
 if you do it right, then you actually can feel halfway decent through this process. But there's a lot
 of things I want to talk about that are negatives. First, start with why am I eating all the stuff that I'm
 eating? Now, most people think, well, it's there. It's put out there. You know, what are the things
 that are in front of you during this season? 99.9% of the time sugar. 99.9% of the time,
 this horribly processed thing that lights up the pleasure centers in your brain the same way that cocaine does.
 99.9% of the time, the stuff that's in front of you is the stuff that makes you feel happier
 for a period of time. That makes you feel better about yourself for a period of time. I always think
 it's funny because it's happened multiple times where people will bring sugar into an event,
 whether it's next level of life or a strat plan. You can see people bringing in their bag,
 oh, sugar, whether it's some sort of candies or something like that because they're expecting stress.
 They're expecting it to be tough. And so their goal is that they will continue to light up the
 pleasure centers in their brain by eating sugar and still feel okay about themselves.
 Guys, that's great if that's all that happened. If that's all that happened, that would be
 one thing, but it's not. Here's what you are doing. You are absolutely killing off the good bacteria
 in your stomach and you are absolutely feeding the bad bacteria in your stomach. So while you put
 something in that lights up the pleasure centers in your brain and you feel better about yourself,
 what you're also in, by the way, that may not just be sugar, it may not just be, well,
 it's sugar, but I mean, it may not just be pies. It could be the, you know, 47 ounce Starbucks
 frappuccino thing with the two pounds of whipped cream on top. That's a new item right now.
 Just kidding. It could be the coffee drinks that you're doing. It could be the alcohol that you're doing.
 It could be all kinds of stuff, right? When you're killing off the good bacteria in your gut
 and you are growing the bad bacteria in your gut, what you're doing is while you're getting a moment's
 happiness from the pleasure centers in your brain, you're actually bringing on inflammation.
 You're actually feeding a bacteria that is now growing in causing digestive issues. You're actually
 creating what is going to bring on depression, anxiety, stress. So this is the crazy thing. People shove
 sugar into their bodies to feel better about themselves and then wonder why they're depressed.
 And then wonder why they have anxiety and wonder why they feel horrible about themselves and
 wonder why they're down. Well, there's a reason. You keep putting stuff, you keep feeding your body
 the wrong stuff. That's why. So I am not saying that you can't have peace pie. I'm not saying that you
 can't have fun for the holidays. What I'm helping you with is understanding why this becomes so
 difficult. When you are shoving in and what do people do when they go shopping? Go as the first thing
 they do. Go get one of those sugary coffees, right? Let me go dump a bunch of sugar in myself so I
 can go walk around them all for 17 hours. And then eat crap while I'm there as well. When you put that
 stuff in, you start creating inflammation. You start creating digestive issues. You start creating
 more bad bacteria and killing off-grid bacteria, which starts sending signals to your brain to put
 more of the sugar in. Why? Because you're feeding the very thing that is growing like crazy.
 When you do that, your mood swings. When you do that, your pleasure centers when they're not being
 full of sugar, you actually start to feel depressed. There's so much information now that is tying
 depression directly to inflammation. I mean, there's not a lot of people are talking about it,
 but there is a ton of research on it. It doesn't take you long to go look it up. That depression
 anxiety, these pieces come from what's happening inside of your body. So if you want happiness,
 don't get it for five seconds by shoving sugar in during this time. Don't get it by overindulging.
 Instead, still make really smart decisions. Eat clean. Eat healthy. Make smart decisions with
 whole foods. Make sure that you're putting organic non-gimmostuff in your body. Healthy stuff,
 not processed crap. That way, when you eat that piece of pie, or you eat that cookie or two or three,
 not the whole box, then you're actually doing way better with your health. You can still feel good
 eating something that is got sugar in it, but it's not destroying your body at that moment. As
 if you ate all day long or every day or every place you go to, or the cookies that are showing
 up in your office right now or whatever. So make smart choices. Denye your body, the sugar,
 for a while, eat clean clean clean clean. So that you can make the decision to eat something that's
 not so clean. Just don't keep eating all the not so clean stuff. If you will do this,
 then you will keep yourself from overindulging this season. And here's the great thing.
 What's the first thing that's going to happen when we turn the beginning of the year?
 Because of all of the stuff we've done to our bodies, we're going to feel like we need to go fix everything.
 So here's what people do. It just cracks me up. Knowing that they're going to start working out in
 January and then they're going to do that for five, total weeks and then drop off again. They eat like
 crazy now. So they add on a whole bunch of bad stuff. They overindulge like crazy, planning on going and
 spending the whole next year working out, which literally if you look it up, I think it's about the average
 amount of time and a gym starting after a new year's resolution is about five weeks. It's about four
 five weeks. So listen, don't go back on a whole bunch of bad unhealthy weight. Only to not go work it off.
 Right? Be smart. Make smart decisions. If you find yourself shoving a bunch of sugar and ask yourself
 the question, why am I doing this? Why am I putting this in my body? If you are married, if you have
 an accountability partner, whatever, say, "Hey, help me through this time. Help me not to put a bunch
 of junk in." Now on top of this, I forgot to mention this, I used to in the December timeframe
 years ago, that was a time when people are setting things to the office. I'm eating all kinds of junk.
 And I would get sick every single year, every year in December. I'd get really sick by eating a bunch of
 sugar. And it wasn't until I actually discovered what I was doing that was causing the sickness that I
 was dropping my immune system, my crazy, that I was growing the bad bacteria and killing up the
 good bacteria in my stomach. That I was putting this junk in my system that was causing my digestion
 to get jacked up, my liver to get jacked up, my sinuses to get jacked up, that I wouldn't end up sick.
 Crazy thing, when I stopped eating a ton of sugar in the holiday season, I stopped getting sick.
 I'm not saying I haven't ever been sick in this time frame. I'm just saying what happened every
 single year. All of a sudden, it happens once in a great while. So if you find that your kids get sick
 during this time, that you get sick during this time, take a hard look at what you're putting in your bodies.
 Once again, not saying that you can't need to be spying. You can do whatever you want to.
 My goal isn't to be here to smack your hand with a ruler. My goal is to be here to give you the
 information that helps you to make smart decisions that helps you to be disciplined in the process.
 So, each of you spend time doing fun things during holiday events, spend money. If you've got it,
 but stick to the things that are values in your life. Keep these values in these areas,
 and it will keep you happier. It will keep you healthier. It will keep your waistline smaller. It will
 keep your sanity much better in place for most of you. Some of you, sorry, you're probably
 already out there on the fringe right now. Anyways, it will help you to keep doing what you really enjoy
 without feeling overextended. So don't wake up in January. Stress out with bills, feeling unhealthy,
 and having a holiday hangover instead make smart decisions. In all three of these areas, start with,
 why? Why am I doing this? Then set up a plan to get through this time in the healthiest way you
 possibly can. Now, next week we're actually going to talk about what it's like to put in some
 healthy boundaries. Some of you are going to be spending time with family members. And for some of you,
 it's going to be fantastic and awesome and loving and great. And for some of you, you've been
 dreading this for weeks. So next week we're going to talk about how do we put in healthy boundaries with
 people that we're going to spend time with and make sure that we keep ourselves healthy and keep ourselves
 from being toxic. Well, folks, hopefully this has helped you today. Thank you for joining me.
 I hope it has served you well. I encourage you to subscribe, rate, and share the podcast to help more people
 join our community. And as always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business,
 change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]