 Part two of how not to get derail during the holidays that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks. Today we are doing the second piece of how not to get derail during the holidays. The first piece was on not for spending by not over committing by not over indulging.
 If you have not listened to that episode, make sure you go back and listen to it. You don't have to listen to it before this one, but it is a great, well, I'll end you as a great episode.
 I think it is something that we all need to be thinking about during this time. Today, we are trying not to be derailed during the holiday season as we go in spend time with how do I say difficult people?
 Maybe toxic people, unhealthy people, you might be the unhealthy person or the toxic person. During this time, this tends to be a time that we spend with family, with friends and for a lot of people.
 We see it all the time and here, this is what we do for a living. There is a lot of folks where this time of year is not a happy time.
 That going and spending time with individuals who treat them like crap or attack or demean or whatever, fill in the blank is not a happy thing.
 It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a happy thing. It is a
 We're going to get to that right after this.
 We're going to get to that right after this.
 Today, I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself, is there more? There is a better way.
 You can go to Chrissacrita.com/discover to take the next step. If you're struggling with this contentment, regret or not feeling good enough, which most of you are, if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking, don't keep going through the same motions every single day.
 Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace. Go to Chrissacrita.com/discover and take the next step.
 We're talking about not getting derailed during the holiday season.
 While we're going to talk about how to put in some healthy boundaries and things like that, just a bit, what I wanted to hit was more of not losing sight of the reason for the season.
 There's no doubt Jesus was not born in December. We have plenty of evidence that says that he was not born in December. If you don't know that by now, well, surprise.
 By the way, there's no Santa Claus either. Jesus was not born in December. He was born either in the springtime or in the falltime.
 The key is in the Bible as you're reading along. What you see is the shepherds were feeding their flocks in the fields.
 If you've ever been to Israel or if you've not been to Israel, what you understand when it comes to fields is a very hilly, hilly place.
 When you find a field, you grow stuff in it. That's what you do. For the sheep to be feeding in the fields means that there was nothing growing at the time that it was okay for the sheep to come off of the hillside and eat down in the fields.
 Otherwise, there would be walking along and this is just so cool. The paths of righteousness to getting to a place where they could feed on Tufts of grass somewhere else.
 By knowing that they were down in the fields means that nobody was growing stuff at the time. So it was either before or after harvest.
 So we're talking about either spring-ish time or in the falltime. Many people still choose to celebrate this season with the context of celebrating the birth of Christ.
 And going ballistic on, buying people stuff and having parties and everything like that in the name of Christ. What I want to talk about is not losing sight of why we're celebrating.
 Now people choose to celebrate this time in the name of Christ because Jesus came to earth. He took on flesh and came with a specific purpose not to do his own will, but to serve and give his life a ransom for many Matthew 20 28.
 We celebrate this time because we know that, well, for a lot of us, we understand that it is because of our choices, it's because of evils, because of things that we do that we needed a Savior to enter this world as a child and take on all of the stupid that we have done and are going to do.
 Right, while we were yet enemies, he still took on our sins. Right. So I want you guys to be thinking about during the season. What is the most important thing for you to be focusing on?
 Is it the running around like crazy? Is it the spending tons of money you're going into debt? Is it the parties? Is it the, you know, the stuff that you put up and hang around your house?
 Or is it because that we are sinful people? We are selfish people. We make choices that hurt us and hurt our relationship with God and because of that God made away for us to have eternal life with him that we could spend eternity with him that we could spend eternity out of this junk.
 So I want you to spend time this season with your family remembering Christ in a sacrificial death. His burial, his resurrection and to confess his incarnation first John 4 2 by this.
 You know the spirit of God, every spirit that confesses Jesus Christ has come and the flesh is from God as we look at first Corinthians 15 21 3 26 for as by a man came death by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead.
 For as an animal die so also in Christ shall all be made alive but each in his own order Christ the first fruits then at his coming those who belong to Christ.
 Then comes the end when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father after destroying every rule every authority and power for he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet the last enemy to be destroyed is death. This is what he came for.
 He brushed you nine but we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels namely Jesus crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering death so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone.
 He is the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the first and the
 So during this time what I hope that you focus on is loving your family, being there for each other, enjoying your time, enjoying your life having fun right being a gift giver.
 But more than anything I hope what you focus on is helping people to remember that if it's not for Jesus then we are screwed right.
 If it's not for him taking on that cross Calvary Street where he willingly went to bear our sins so that we might live to righteousness. So as you think through this time and think about the gifts that you want to give and you think about the fun that you want to have and you think about the
 the month that you want to experience here so don't want you to focus on where is your focus right and where should it be because as much enjoyment as gifts bring to you as much pleasure as
 sugary pies and cakes and cookies bring to you there's going to be a day when none of this stuff matters but you are standing before the one and only God the Holy God and the joy that you experience will blow away any party that you're going to right.
 So be thankful remember the season spend time in the word don't spend less time in the word find more time in the word right don't spend time feeling avoid with the worldly things.
 Don't spend time trying to feel better feel more worthy feel more accepted feel good enough by buying people stuff by feeling responsible for their their feelings and their happiness by attending 7000 parties in one month.
 Don't don't feel the void with the worldly stuff spend time with your your heavenly father spend time with the one and only who has your eternity in his hands spend time with the one who loved you well before he made you.
 That he had already had a plan for you to be spending eternity with him so remember the season remember what your why you're celebrating remember you know or maybe stop it as the question why do I celebrate this time for some of you lot you know there's people that follow the show that aren't believers.
 Ask the question why follow this time why what is what's the celebration for so whether you're a believer or not a believer ask yourself the question why am I celebrating this time.
 And hopefully what you come down to is because I am so incredibly thankful not because of what man is done not because what man is put in place again like I said this actually is not the birth of Jesus is you know this this is not the time of Jesus is birth.
 You know so I'm not don't look at the manly the human stuff why are you celebrating Christ birth what is the purpose and if the purpose is because you have the one and only loving God.
 Then focus spending more time and him focus spending more time on growing closer to him focus on spending more time on gaining that joy that comes from understanding that no matter what situation or circumstance you are in in life.
 And I think that's the time you transition from this to being with Christ. So we're going to talk more about less about this stuff and more about what do you do when you're on other people when we come back right after this.
 I've never seen a leader that's had everything that they wanted out of thousands of leaders that I've coached most are probably a lot like you you wish you saw greater productivity unless drama from your team that you didn't spend your energy putting out fires that you had more time to invest in your family and the things that you enjoy and you felt more quit to lead your team to success.
 The only thing that's holding leaders back from the results they desire is having the right tools and you can get those tools at the next level leadership live event.
 So if you're young old new experienced struggling or really successful this event is for anyone who is ready to learn from 25 years of best practices that get proven results.
 It's not about short term fixes. In three days I'm going to teach you how to have sustained revenue growth to generate greater productivity from your team and get immediate momentum toward the results that you want.
 It's going to be detailed practical and loaded with how to's from the lessons we're teaching our clients have seen an average of 46% increase in gross profit in one year's time.
 These clients are a normal everyday businesses and your business can have the same level of success.
 So if you're ready to see those results go to crissacrido.com/events and get your tell to this event and invest in your leadership and your business that's crissacrido.com/events.
 I can't wait to see you there.
 That was so heavy and deep and tough. Good. Let it be. Really. Let it overpower some of the decisions you normally make in the December season on focusing on stuff and plastic crap.
 Now we're talking about spending time with people. Some of you are going to be spending time with families and you know you're going to do it. Some of you are choosing not to spend time with families. I can't tell you whether that's good or bad.
 But those of us that are believers we are called to make peace. We are supposed to be making peace with other believers. If you have a family that calls itself Christian but when you get there it becomes very toxic. Remember you're called for peace.
 So make those decisions. How you make them. But what happens when you do get around people that are unhealthy and toxic? The first thing I am going to hit this is to all believers.
 I don't care if you agree with me or not. If you disagree then get your face in God's word and prove me wrong.
 There's one thing that God is very focused on and it's one of his 10 commandments. That is that you are to honor your mother and father. Now do not be confused by what honoring your mother and father means.
 I'm going to lay this out a little bit. You are to honor them which means that you don't do stuff against them. You don't rip on your parents. You don't have arguments with your parents. You try hard not to have arguments or fight or call them by their first names or do things that dishonor them.
 None of that means that you go along with toxic or unhealthy behavior. So do not combine these two.
 If you have very toxic parents or unhealthy parents it does not mean that you follow suit. It doesn't mean that you put yourself in a bad situation with them.
 What it does mean that you don't treat them like crap. Even if they are just flat toxic. Now I know I'm speaking to a lot of folks that have come through next level of life.
 A lot of folks that have come through a bunch of the stuff that we do. A lot of folks have phenomenal parents and they love spending time with their families and they love spending time with their parents.
 You know that going in spending time with certain family members is unhealthy. It's not good. It's not good for you. Many folks have people that do nothing but attack and rail and demean and column names and in joking ways control and treat their kids like junk.
 If that's what you experience then you have to ask yourself a question what are healthy boundaries with those people going to look like.
 But first you have to recognize what does it look like to not dishonor them. How does it look to honor them?
 One of the reasons this is so important to your father and heaven who is your true father is because he kind of looks on it the way you treat your parents is how you look at him.
 That's how you view him. And he is not your parents. The earthy parents. He is your heavenly father. He is your true parent. He is the one that is mistakeless.
 He is not fallible. He is the infallible.
 So as you look at your parents and as you treat them he has put a moral law in place to honor your mother and father. He did not put a moral law in place that you follow suit into unhealthiness and toxicity.
 So make right decisions. If you have parents that are doing really crappy things to you don't fight back don't rip their heads off don't get in arguments with them.
 Bite your tongue until you're bleeding and remove yourself from the situation.
 Do something to remove yourself from the situation you are an adult.
 You are capable of doing so. But then they'll just yell at me in calming names and tell me how horrible I am on the way out. Okay.
 Then allow it. But get out. Remove yourself. Put yourself in a healthier situation.
 You are not supposed to be hanging around toxicity because there's some sort of honor to it.
 There is not. That is not honoring your parents by enabling them to treat you like crap.
 Right. And right now I'm only talking about the parents. We're talking about the honoring side because God didn't put a law in there that said honor your brother and your sister.
 He didn't put a law in there that says honor your cousins. He said your mom and your dad.
 Right. So this is a little pork piece. You could probably put in some considerably healthier boundaries with other family members.
 Right now I want you to understand if you have those parents or a parent but it's just unhealthy and toxic.
 Do what you can but if it becomes unhealthy or toxic remove yourself from the situation.
 It is okay to put in certain healthy boundaries with your parents. So if saying hey listen I'm not going to receive this. I'm not that's not acceptable.
 I'm just going to go ahead and take off now because I'm not going to stand here and have you call me names and all that kind of stuff.
 And then go remove yourself from the situation because what's going to happen if you stay there eventually you're going to blow your top right eventually you're going to fight back eventually you're going to argue back.
 That's not doing anybody any good. So parent wise honor do not enable toxicity.
 Right. Get that make sure that you've got that straight. What about everybody else? What about my uncle Joe who's going to get drunk and you know,
 Gosh, it surprises me some of the stories that I hear that I just never realized that people experience in families.
 Folks, it is okay for you to put in healthy boundaries with toxic unhealthy people.
 Right. So once we move past the parents you put your healthy boundaries in place with your parents if you need to.
 But there's nothing wrong if you've got disgusting uncle Joe who's a total, you know, dirt bag that you've got to say specific things of putting in healthy boundaries.
 You were not going to talk to me this way. You were not going to do this. I am not going to receive this crap. I'm not going to allow you to whatever.
 If you are in a situation in people become toxic and unhealthy make the smart decision for you now caveat.
 If you're the one who's spurring on the toxicity in the unhealthyness well guess what you deserve it then right.
 Because you shouldn't be trying to create the crap you shouldn't you should be making peace right so don't go in there and start stirring up a whole bunch of junk and then feel like you now somebody's attacking you and you got to put in healthy boundaries.
 I'm talking about if you're going in peacefully and somebody is being a dark then stop and watch it like a movie.
 You know what's going to happen. You know how they're going to respond. You already know because you've experienced this before otherwise you wouldn't be worried about it right.
 So if you go in and you know so and so your brother your sister your uncle your whoever your aunt is going to be a dark.
 Know what's coming be peaceful be peaceful be peaceful be peaceful when they swing it don't receive it.
 Don't accept it.
 Just give it right back to them. I'm sorry you can keep that I'm not going to receive that that's a lie or I'm sorry I'm not going to I'm not going to receive that that's you know whatever.
 So here's the deal don't let people sit your reality right don't let them hurt you here's what we're going to talk about on the next episode coming up next week.
 We're going to be talking about how hurt people hurt people. So we're going to we're going to dive into the things I'm telling you about right now we're going to go deeper dive into that kind of stuff so make sure you come back and listen to that episode.
 I understand that it's okay for you to say I'm worth more than staying here and taking on this crap.
 I am worth more than allowing somebody to demean me to rip me apart to talk badly to me to guilt the daylights out of me to set my reality and tell me that I'm the horrible person when literally I've done nothing coming into this situation and again those are caveats saying hey you're coming in being peaceful right.
 You are coming in being the jerk well then don't be surprised if people are setting healthy boundaries with you then that might be an indicator right.
 So just don't allow it understand that it's okay to say no.
 It's okay to say enough is enough it's okay to say I'm not going to receive that and it's okay to say I'm not going to allow you to set my reality.
 It's okay just be honest with you if you're not doing anything wrong if you're not being a jerk yourself if you're being peaceful if you're being kind and somebody is doing this.
 Remove yourself from the situation help you go be around healthy people.
 I'm not saying don't go to family functions I'm not saying don't you know completely right off your parents or people.
 I'm not saying that at all and especially to those of you that have fantastic family spend as much time as you can.
 What I'm saying is to those of you that are dealing with some toxic peeps find some people to surround yourself with.
 Find an ecclesia of people who are seeking God and seeking you know to be more peaceful and to have a greater relationship with him and to be more Christ like find those people to spend time with.
 Because that's going to be the place where you get stronger and more healthy spend way more time with God spend more time in his word.
 So prepare yourself prepare yourself as you go to some of these parties prepare yourself as you go to some of these you know I don't know family reunions I don't know if anybody has a family reunion at this time but you know these times when you are reunited with some potentially toxic folks.
 Go prepared go watching it like a movie if it does happen then put healthy boundaries in place if it gets really toxic remove yourself from the situation don't allow it to continue.
 If you do that then you can keep yourself from being derailed during this holiday season.
 If you focus on what I shared on the front side of the show if you focus on the reason for the season.
 If you focus on you know being very grateful and thankful for the birth of Christ which again didn't happen during the season time but anyways.
 If you are very thankful and grateful that God bore the cross and took your sins away then it makes it much more difficult to hang around unhealthy and toxic people.
 It makes it much more important for you to put healthy things in life.
 Focus on that focus on God focus on Jesus are Lord and Savior focus on the King and the Universe the more you do that the more you focus on being grateful and thankful.
 The more this will be the best season as opposed to what it's been for some of you so many times in the past which is a really tough and painful season.
 Well folks hopefully this is helped you today again we're going to do a deeper dive next week on the show talking about how hurt people hurt people.
 We will get further into this and give you some more understanding behind this.
 So we hope that you join us then hopefully this is helped you today take this information change your leadership change your business change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]