 hurt people, hurt people. That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks. So glad that you were joining us with the
 title that you just talked about, how hurt people hurt people.
 Hey, you're still with us. That's good. Today, we're this is kind of a,
 it's almost like a three part thing that we're doing this month where we're following
 up on, you know, the first. We did the past two shows that we're not becoming over
 extended, you know, during this season. And we're rolling into a very important piece as we're
 spending time. A lot of us are spending time with great loved ones. A lot of us are
 spending time with phenomenal people and fantastic family. And it's awesome. And then some folks
 are not. Some folks are either spending time with some unhealthy folks or some toxic people
 or you might be listening to this, you know, months later and the reason why you don't go
 and spend time with family or relatives is because of, you know, some of the toxicity in
 some of the heart. So today we're talking about how hurt people hurt people. As you come into our building
 into our event space, there is a great sign above the doorway that was made by a next level of
 a 10-ty years ago. And he went after his event. He went home and made this wood piece and painted on
 it hurt people, hurt people. And that has been above that door frame ever since. It's just a reminder
 of many things for those of us that are believers. It's a reminder that we live in a fallen world,
 you know, that we live in a painful world. For others, it's a reminder that, you know, sometimes
 when somebody is trying to hurt you or choosing to hurt you, that there's more to it. That it's not
 just you necessarily. It might be you. It might be something that you're doing to hurt them. But a lot of
 situations what we discover is many times that's not the reason. So we're going to dive into this and
 I want to rock through a bunch of different points to help you to understand what's going on when
 hurt people will be back on a piece. Next level of life is our two-day personal discovery experience.
 It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover your
 root system, to get unstuck in life and to discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace.
 Imagine this. What if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose? What would it look
 like to have healthier relationships with less conflict? Where would you be in a few months, a year,
 five years, if you had clarity, purpose, and peace? Probably a big difference for more you stand today.
 Now I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself, is there more? There is,
 and there is a better way. And it starts with the next level of life. You can go to crissacrata.com/discover
 to take the next step. Now if you're struggling with this contentment, regret, or not feeling good
 enough, which most of you are, if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking,
 don't keep going through the same motions every single day. Learn how to move past the things
 robbing you of peace. Go to crissacrata.com/discover and take the next step.
 All right, we are back. So when people hurt other folks, it's usually not because they want to.
 It's not like this is something that just like, "Hey, the day is going great, man, I'd really
 love to hurt somebody right now." That doesn't have, it's not just a desire to hurt somebody. So often
 we can assume that people want to be jerks, so they're purposefully trying to hurt us and they're not.
 Sometimes it's true, but not the majority of the time. Every down then, somebody is just so toxic
 that they have to hurt somebody else, but the reasons are still all around the same kind of idea, the same
 kind of reason, and that is because they are hurting. They are struggling. There is something when somebody
 intentionally hurts somebody else. And I'm not talking about the, "Hey, you accidentally say something
 that it came out one way when you met it another way." And you had no clue that it was going to hurt
 somebody. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the intentionality behind hurting others.
 Like somebody walks in the door at a family gathering and the first thing you say is, "Wow,
 it's just like the rest of your life. You never could show up on time. One of when that's ever
 going to change." I mean, that's just ridiculous. That's the first thing I could go up with on the top of my
 head. Or you're sitting there at dinner and somebody's like, "So, still seeing someone so,
 never going to make a good decision, are you?" You're never going to be with somebody who's, you know,
 I don't know. Whatever the crap is that you hear, whatever you experience. The reason why they're doing
 that, the reason why they are hurting others, the reason why they are calling people out or making
 those comments, is not because they just enjoy being jerks. It's because they're struggling inside.
 It's because they're insecure themselves. It's because they are feeling the need to point at somebody
 else and cause pain because the pain that they are experiencing. So you may get frustrated with yourself
 by not understanding why in the moment, but what you need to understand is, is that it's actually
 way less about you. Now, again, caveat on this, if you're being a peaceful person and you're not
 trying to create problems and all that kind of stuff and you're not doing stupid, this is just flying
 out of left field, then it actually has way less to do with you and it has to do more with the fact
 that they are hurting. So why do hurt people hurt people? Well, when you can't fix you, when you're
 frustrated with the broken person inside of you, you get really frustrated with people in your life.
 A great quote, I don't actually know who this came from, but a great quote was criticism of others
 is in a bleak form of self-commandation. We think we make the picture hang straight on our wall
 by telling our neighbor that his pictures are crooked, that all of his pictures are crooked.
 The more that we could point out to somebody else, hey, this is a problem that you've got, this is
 something that's wrong with you. The more we feel like we're actually making ourselves okay.
 But if we can point out that there's something wrong with you, if we can create something, if we can
 set your reality, if we can whatever, then we can feel better about ourselves because we're struggling
 inside, because we're hurting inside. So if I don't like my life, then I don't have a problem
 pointing out all the bad things in your life because I'm struggling with me. The crazy thing is for
 those of us that are receiving this crap, we automatically receive it and assume that it actually is
 about us. When really, the crazy part is, it's actually not. Rarely, is it actually about the person who's
 being attacked or hurt or having their reality set. It's almost always all about the person who's
 doing the attacking, right? To have you out again if you're being peaceful. So when a person feels out of
 control, they try to usually gain control of two types of things. If a person is feeling out of control,
 they try to control people or they try to control outcomes and more than not, what you find is the
 more toxic, they're definitely trying to control the people, right? And so if somebody can set your reality
 and tell you that you're a horrible person and you receive it, then they actually feel like there is this
 crazy insane win on their side. They actually feel like they gained control by taking control from you.
 If somebody can be controlling manipulative abuse of two you and you receive it and respond,
 then they have convinced themselves that they have regained control because that's the goal.
 The problem is you don't know how to not receive it. If you came into a family dinner
 and you drive up in your, I don't know what you drive up in your, your Ford pickup truck, I don't care.
 And I'm sitting there going forward, huh? Which by the way, I used to own a Ford,
 I've owned a Ford in a Chevy. I'm looking out there and I'm going forward, huh?
 It shows the kind of choices you make in life, right? Why would anybody choose such a stupid vehicle?
 What a horrible kind of vehicle, right? And if by the way, I'm do not think that Ford's a stupid,
 so don't jump there. The concept of what I'm doing right now is that it puts the person in a place
 where they immediately feel like they have to defend themselves. They immediately feel like they've made
 a horrible decision or they're a bad person or their truck decision is not smart or or or and they feel
 not good enough, not worthy enough. The person who's attacking the truck and the decision on the truck
 is not necessarily attacking the decision on the truck because they really truly believe that that
 brand of vehicle is not a good one. It's because it's the thing that they see that they can control the other
 person with. So if they believe by attacking your vehicle brand choice that you're going to struggle with it,
 that you're going to suffer with it, that you're going to become defensive and that you're going to
 receive what they did, then they will attack. It's the craziest thing and it's one of the
 saddest and funniest things to watch at the same time. The first time you actually put healthy boundaries
 in place and go, "Hey, I really didn't come here to hear your opinion about my vehicle."
 I really didn't come here to listen to you talk about me making bad choices with kinds of cars that I buy.
 I happen to love my car, so let's not talk about that. Let's talk about something else. I don't
 receive that I made a bad decision with my vehicle choice. It is funny to watch the person respond with, "What
 do you mean you don't receive it?" Because in their mind they're just right and they need control
 and you've now not allowed them to take that control. So when you put that healthy boundary in place,
 it causes them to really reevaluate whether or not they take the risk again to try and make you look stupid.
 Whether or not they take the risk again to try in their minds and air quotes, "Take control from
 you when you put healthy boundaries in place." The problem is if you don't know how to manage your emotions
 and you don't know how to not receive crap, that's a tack of somebody that is being out of control,
 then you will receive the very thing that they're saying or you will get defensive or you will
 fight back and then you're feeding right into the very thing that they want. They are miserable,
 thus the reason for attacking you and now you're feeding into that misery because now you're miserable.
 So we're going to talk about what you should do when we come back right up to this.
 I've never seen a leader that's had everything that they wanted. Out of thousands of leaders that
 I've coached most are probably a lot like you. You wish you saw greater productivity unless drama
 from your team that you didn't spend your energy putting out fires that you had more time to invest in
 your family and the things that you enjoy and you felt more equipped to lead your team to success.
 The only thing that's holding leaders back from the results they desire is having the right
 tools and you can get those tools at the next level leadership live event. So if you're young,
 old, new, experienced, struggling or really successful, this event is for anyone who is ready to learn
 from 25 years of best practices that get proven results. It's not about short-term fixes. In three
 days, I'm going to teach you how to have sustained revenue growth to generate greater productivity from
 your team and get immediate momentum toward the results that you want. It's going to be detailed,
 practical and loaded with how to's. From the lessons we're teaching, our clients have seen an average
 of 46% increase in growth profit in one year's time. That's one year's time. These clients are a normal
 everyday businesses and your business can have the same level of success. So if you're ready to see
 those results, go to crissacrido.com/events and get your tell to this event and invest in your leadership
 and your business that's crissacrido.com/events. I can't wait to see you there.
 Alright, we were talking about people hurting people and now we're going to talk about things that you can
 do. So the first thing I want you to focus on and by the way keep in mind, when I say focus on you,
 you're not hearing me saying the same things that a lot of thought leaders are saying out there
 that are make everything in your life about you. There is ridiculous thought leaders that are out there
 right now that are telling you to go stand on the mountaintop and scream to the world who you are and
 you deserve this and you this and you this and it is incredibly self-focused in self-centered. That's not
 what you're hearing for me. So please do not lump me in with them because I do not believe that that's the
 way it should be. I do not believe you should be self-centered and self-focused. I believe you should be
 focused on God. I believe you should take care of yourself in a healthy way, not in a self-centered,
 self-focused. I'm the center of the universe kind of way. So I want you to focus on you. If you're
 struggling with things or if you're frustrated with things in your life, then you might not be able
 to manage your emotions for how you respond to people. You might be somebody who is hurting others as well.
 You're probably responding with hurt because you hurt. It's very possible that you might be the one
 who's throwing out the barbs, who's throwing out the attacks, who's manipulating. So first thing I want
 to do is focus on you because we continue in patterns and sometimes we hurt others because we don't
 understand ourselves. We don't get that we're frustrated with something. We don't get that we're struggling
 with something. There are times I can look back over my life when I found myself being bitter for a period
 of time and then stopping and going, "Why in the world am I bitter?" And then realizing that I was
 struggling with through something or didn't understand something or was having a problem with something
 or wasn't getting my way somehow and then had to work through the healthy side and the healthy
 response of that. So first thing I want to do is take a look at you. What are you dealing with? What
 are you experiencing? Are there struggles that you're feeling? Are you hurting other people because of
 the pain and the hurt that you have? Sometimes what we do is we want to isolate ourselves. We want to
 cause ourselves to live in the muck and the mire because we hate life. We hate what we're going through.
 We hate what we're experiencing. If that's you and we're hoping that somebody comes rescue us but
 you know we're still just going to live in that junk until somebody does something or we just get
 fed up with it. Right? If that's you, if that's what you're experiencing in life, if life isn't
 what you want, if it isn't going the way you want, if you're not happy, then guess what? There's a really
 good chance your hurt and therefore your hurting others. If you are, then the hurting the other people
 is actually not helping you. It's not getting you to a better place. You can even convince yourself
 that in the moment, "Oh, I feel much better." Oh, it totally helps. I feel really good for about 37 seconds.
 Well, good for you. But now you've hurt somebody else right? Now you've hurt one of God's kids.
 Instead, focus on how do I fix the junk? How do I fix the things that I'm experiencing?
 Chris, this didn't go the way. I thought I would. I thought you were going to tell me all about
 how I fix the people that are hurting me. We're going to talk a little bit about that. We'll get there.
 But here's what I want you to understand. It may be you. And so you may be living in the same
 patterns. You may be experiencing the same pattern, right? If you are struggling, if you are
 frustrated with things in life, if there are things in your passage, you don't understand, then being around
 somebody else who's hurt, you're not going to be able to handle your emotions very well. You won't be
 able to manage you very well. So let's focus on you and get you healthy. If you are not experiencing
 those things, then an amazing thing happens. You're in a much stronger position when somebody tries to
 hurt you to not receive their crap, to understand that they are hurting, to understand that they are using
 that to try and feel better about themselves. If that happens, then you can put healthy boundaries in
 place. Hey, see, you just attacked my truck decision. Is everything okay? Is there anything
 or, oh, no, nothing wrong. I just think it's a stupid decision. Okay? Well, you can keep your opinions
 to yourself, but how are you feeling? How are you doing in life? What are you experiencing right now?
 Is there anything I can help you through? Right? No chances are, they may not respond well to that at all,
 but the funny thing is, I do this for a living and more than not people, all of a sudden, realize that you
 see something that they didn't think you could and they start to tear down the walls a little bit. So
 start with you, start focusing on you. Next thing I want you to do is take inventory of the people around you,
 right? There are probably our people around you that are struggling with this right now.
 So be aware of the people around you. Who are the folks that are struggling with things in life? Who are the
 folks that are experiencing crap who are going through tough times who are, you know, life just isn't so
 good right now. How are you responding to them? Are you taking things personally? Are you responding to
 whatever they do personally? If they're hurting and they're struggling, why are you responding to it
 personally? Why are you making it about you? Be aware of what they're going through, be aware that they're
 hurting that they're struggling and do not enable it. It doesn't mean that you don't come along lovingly,
 it doesn't mean that you don't come along and hold their arms up, but don't enable. And if they attack or
 if they manipulate or they control or you know, do what it's such a reality in a bad way,
 be emotionally strong enough to realize that's actually not really about you, that's about them.
 Because when people attack, it's less about the person they're attacking and it's way more about them,
 right? So understand, you can control your responses to them. You do not have to take things personally.
 You can be kind instead of letting it blow you up or set you off, right? So there's many times that
 people want me to know that they are hurting and if I don't respond the way they want, then they attack
 or they try and you know, take a little knife in there, right? Throw some barbs out there.
 And what I do is, I push back. Hey, what was your intention there? What's your goal?
 Are you, why did you just say that? Are you trying to hurt me? What do you experiencing right now?
 And pretty quickly, they realize, okay, Chris is going to help instead of hurt.
 So take a hard look at the people around you, take inventory. How can you lean in the direction of
 those around you that are struggling? How can you lean in the direction of those that are
 are going through pain? How can you not enable them in their junk? But be supportive. And what I mean
 by not enabling them in their junk is that if all they want to do is is complain, complain, complain,
 complain, and they call it venting, which oh my gosh, it's so stupid. Let me complain about every
 problem in my life right now. And you just listen to me and tell me how good I am. Folks,
 don't do it. Don't do it. Point them two fixes, point them to solutions. Sometimes you just need to
 listen, but just don't enable, right? Because you can't fix it. Most likely, if somebody struggling
 was something or hurt in life, most likely you're not going to be able to fix it, but you can guide them
 to create their perspective. So as you look at those people around you that may be hurting and you may
 it may even be a spouse that's really struggling right now or something that's going on. Or somebody
 who's had the same problem over and over and over for years and you keep telling them about it,
 right? It doesn't matter how many times you tell them, it's not going to change anything until we get to
 the root of it. So until you understand the root, why what's going on the root, what is not really,
 the surface level, what is really not going to matter, right? So let's try and help people to get to an
 understanding of the why. That is what we do in next level, I've all the time. Our goal is to help
 people to really understand those struggles, those things that they're hurting with, those things that they're
 experiencing by driving them to understanding where it's coming from and why it's there. So big suggestion,
 get your butt to next level life, right? Make sure that you get to next level life, there's a lot of
 you out there that are listening to this that are like, man, I know I should have gone for years, get your butt
 in. It's really one of the most powerful things you will ever experience in your life, or help
 somebody else that's been hurting to get into it. So folks, take a hard look at you today, realize that when
 people are struggling that if they're hurting, if they're taking potshots, if they are setting realities,
 if they're controlling, manipulating, if they're hurting others, hurt people hurt people for the reason
 that they are hurting inside. So we're card not to take it personally. If it's you, we're card to discover,
 why am I struggling with this? Many of you need to get your butts here and go through next level
 life and that will help you immensely to overcome a lot of this, as well as set some really healthy
 boundaries. So hopefully this has helped you today. Thank you for joining me. I hope it has served you
 well and encourage you to subscribe, rate and share the podcast to help more people get this kind of
 information to help them in their lives. So as always, take this information, change your leadership,
 change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]