 [Music]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 [Music]
 The most important thing in communication is hearing what isn't said that is by Peter Drucker.
 I feel like I should just do like a silent right now.
 Welcome to the show folks. Today we are speaking about silent signals, giving off signals from your body as opposed to things that you're saying to somebody.
 So there's something we have to understand that we actually speak in multiple languages, two of those languages are at least for those of us in the English speaking world.
 One is English and the other is body. Our body language, our body language is something that tells people a whole lot of stuff about us.
 So question, do you know what your silent signals are?
 Today we're talking about silent signals, your team silent signals and what it can tell you about your leadership and your culture.
 But before we get into that, let's tell you about our phenomenal two day one-on-one personal discovery experience called the next level life.
 Next level life is our two-day personal discovery experience.
 It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover your root system.
 To get unstuck in life and to discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace.
 Imagine this, what if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose?
 What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict?
 Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years if you had clarity, purpose and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today.
 Now I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself, is there more?
 There is, and there is a better way, and it starts with the next level life.
 You can go to Chrissacorda.com/discover to take the next step.
 Now if you're struggling with this contentment, regret, or not feeling good enough, which most of you are,
 if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking, don't keep going through the same motions every single day.
 Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace.
 Go to Chrissacorda.com/discover and take the next step.
 Alright, speaking of next level life, everybody who has been through and a strap plan.
 Again, all of the events that we do here are next level mastermind retreats and whatever it is.
 One of the things we help people to understand as they're coming in, and that is that we watch every bit of your body language.
 Every single bit.
 We watch everything all the time. I'll never forget we had a strap plan in here that we had this team around the table just battling.
 It was really difficult. They had some new folks on their leadership team, and I'm sitting at the end of the table.
 So I have got a decent view of the people that are towards me. I could see from the table down as well.
 And one gal was sitting there and just getting bombarded by another leader. She was just as smooth as could possibly be from the table up.
 But in her lap, her hands were going ballistic. I mean, just she was fidgeting, going crazy.
 And I asked her the question during the process. I said, "Hey, what are you afraid of?"
 And she goes, "I'm not afraid of anything." I've been watching her hands the whole time in her lap.
 And I said to her, "Let me ask you a question. What are you doing with your hands right now?"
 And you could just see her just, "Oh crap." He's been watching me the whole time. He knows that I just told a lie. I am afraid of some stuff.
 And it was a really good, you know, it was a struggle for her to receive that in that moment, but very quickly she was like, "Okay, you're right."
 Now before that, she was the only woman around the table. She was trying to be strong for all these other dudes thinking that that's what they were looking for was for her to be strong and none, you know, not fear anything.
 And instead, when we could get past that moment, she was actually able to share some information that we could use, that was really important for decision making.
 So that's just an example of what we see and what we watch. And the reason why we watch non-verbals, those cues, is because it tells us stuff about you.
 It's something that we use to understand what somebody is experiencing in the moment. If somebody is struggling with something personally, if the topic that we're talking about is really painful, no matter what it is, it helps us to understand what they're experiencing.
 Sometimes they might be saying something to us and actually meaning something completely different. So that is one of the tools that we use not against people, but instead to understand people.
 So what are silent signals? Non-verbal cues that we're constantly giving to those around us.
 Again, it could be something like the ringing of the hands. It could be how you feel towards something. It could be the way your eyes are responding, your mouth is responding. It can be the hairs that are standing up on your arm. It could be any of those types of things.
 The key is that there are a reflection of how we actually feel towards something. Many team members may be telling leaders what they think they want the leader to hear, but the silent signals will actually tell you how they actually feel about something.
 So it's important for you as a leader to understand what you're looking at. I have had and I mean amazingly so. I have had some folks that could look me in the eyes and tell me something that absolutely was not true. I mean not even bad and I had somebody not too long ago that when I asked a series of questions that I knew.
 The truth to me, I knew what was actually going on. That person looked at me in the eye and literally responded without batting an eye. However, I could watch the responses in between.
 I was no longer concerned about the question. I could watch their response that showed that how they actually felt about the situation and knowing that I actually knew the truth with information besides the person's response helped me to see how that person was going to respond to me.
 And I was so good at being able to lie about something and not bad at an eye which 99% of the time people were going to go well, they're being honest because of the information that I had it allowed me to watch the responses that came on both sides of the non verbal cues that came on both sides of the actual verbal response.
 Why am I telling you that? Because there may be times that if you don't have good quality information, somebody can be telling you something and you have no clue what's going on.
 Some people can actually hide a lot of responses in the response. Now, I'm not telling you this to say that we're only looking at people that are lying. That's actually only one part of the situation.
 A lot of times people respond verbally with something to protect themselves when they feel another way. So even in their mind, something they might be saying is not untrue. It could be very true.
 But the way that they feel about it can be totally different. I'll never forget when we had Vanessa Van Edwards on who, if you've ever seen the TV show,
 Lied a me, she was a big part. She worked with the guy who that show was all about.
 And how much she talked through some of the amazing responses that you see with people when they are responding with fear, when they're responding with excitement, when they're lying, when they're hiding,
 all those different cues, it was awesome to be able to talk to her about all those different cues. So here's what it kind of looks like.
 We're going to kind of talk about different postures. It can be, in these can be good, they could be bad.
 They could be a person processing, they could be a person struggling. The key is you have to think about the content of what's being communicated at the time.
 And that will give you a lot of information to is the signal aligning with the content. So some signals you might notice, no eye contact, looking down at the ground, ringing their hands,
 referring their eyes, their forehead, mouth trumbles, shoulder shrugs when it doesn't make sense. I browse being raised when it doesn't make sense.
 Now verbal cues, that go along with this could be increase in pitch, increase in volume, but really,
 you know, while those are two vocal cues, I think they're important to know. But really what we're looking for is how is the body responding to the thing that's being communicated, either communicated to them or communicated from them.
 So it's important for us to always watch when we hit something in a very intense event or a complicated discussion between leaders or whatever, that when we throw something out or maybe, you know, like in,
 in next level of life or in a strap plan, we do what we call gut punches. Hey, here's something that's going to hurt a little bit, but this is going to be incredibly beneficial for you when you get this right.
 So sometimes one will throw out a gut punch or looking for how the person responds. Now the verbal cues are super easy, right? If somebody responds very defensively or somebody, you know,
 responds with victim mentality, you can hear that, the words give them away. But when somebody responds physically in a way, it could be that you say something of, I don't know,
 hey, all of these things that you're listing out, what I'm seeing is this is victim mentality. You can watch somebody's response of eyebrows raised immediately or, you know,
 referring to the eyes or a curl up of one side of the mouth or their hands come together and real strong. All of these indicators are just some examples of somebody really not liking what they just heard.
 Right, another thing you can watch is is a lot of times we'll watch somebody's foot while you're having a conversation like I mentioned about the table. If I can see somebody's hands under the table, I'm looking.
 I want to see how they're responding. Are they fidgeting or are they struggling like there's times for me, I'm a fidgeter. I like having a pen in my hand, I like to rolling a pen, I like, you know, if I don't have something like a pen or something, then sometimes I'll, you know,
 grab onto the side of the chair or all tap on something or you know, I'm doing something with my hands because my brain is running at a hundred miles an hour and I need to do something with my hands. It just helps me to either focus or just, you know,
 it helps my brain to pay attention to certain things sometimes. Well, it could also be the very thing that if the content is not good content, then if I'm going to ringing my hands or struggling with my hands,
 then I might be receiving the information badly. If my foot is going a thousand miles an hour, there's a reason. And the funny thing is, is a lot of times you can watch it. Sometimes it's just somebody fidgeting and that's one thing. You can see the fidget because nothing being discussed or nothing being experienced at the time is actually should be causing some level of discomfort.
 But the moment you drop the discomfort in, you can watch the foot, you can watch the leg, you can watch the way that they sit forward, sit back, shift away from you, position themselves towards somebody else who's more comfortable in the room to them.
 All of those pieces help you to see something just happened with this information. Now, because I'm sharing this, I want to say, recognize that you're a little dangerous right now by understanding this.
 It doesn't mean that you know this inside and out it doesn't mean that you know exactly what the person was thinking.
 And I can tell you this, the personality style that will throw you off the most with their body language, high sea, because a high sea's body language, a good amount of time, does not align with their body language.
 It's one of those things you just need time and time and time and time and time, studying people and understanding them to see what personality style is going to respond with that body language.
 So there are times that again, like a high sea whose face is shriveled up while you're speaking, could absolutely be processing the information.
 So if the thing you're saying is not something that should set them off or is it something that's stupid or dumb or ridiculous, then there's a really good chance they're actually really listening to you and taking that in.
 So you have to align, what is it that you're experiencing with them with the content or the situation? A super easy one to understand is when you bring a team member in to discuss something and their nervous, they're uncomfortable, they can't sit still.
 They're constantly moving in their chair, they're having to shift side to side.
 That's a pretty easy one, you can understand that something's going wrong.
 Then I do notice that instead of saying, I see the chair nervous, which a lot of folks would probably do, instead I'll ask some questions, hey, how do you feel right now?
 I'll totally fine, I feel good. Okay, is there anything that you're nervous about? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
 I'll totally fine, I feel good. Is there anything that you're nervous about? No, no, no, no, no, not nervous at all. Hey, help me understand something. I see that you're shifting a lot in your chair. Why is it all I'm just a fidgety person?
 Is there any concerns about the thing that we're talking about? Oh, yeah, I'm really worried about this, this, this, this, this, this, this, okay. So you're not experiencing any discomfort right now. You're not feeling nervous, and all of a sudden it'll make sense to them. Oh my gosh.
 He's asking me those questions. I'm actually giving that information to them by the way that I'm responding in my chair. So when we come back, we're going to talk about signals that you give off as a leader and how you can make sure that you're very cognizant of not giving them wrong signals.
 I've never seen a leader that's had everything that they wanted out of thousands of leaders that I've coached most are probably a lot like you. You wish you saw greater productivity unless drama from your team that you didn't spend your energy putting out fires that you had more time to invest in your family and the things that you enjoy and you felt more equipped to lead your team to success.
 The only thing that's holding leaders back from the results they desire is having the right tools and you can get those tools at the next level leadership live event.
 So if you're young, old, new experienced, struggling or really successful, this event is for anyone who is ready to learn from 25 years of best practices that get proven results.
 It's not about short term fixes. In three days, I'm going to teach you how to have sustained revenue growth to generate greater productivity from your team and get immediate momentum toward the results that you want.
 It's going to be detailed, practical and loaded with how to's from the lessons we're teaching our clients have seen an average of 46% increase in gross profit in one year's time.
 These clients are a normal, everyday businesses and your business can have the same level of success.
 So if you're ready to see those results, go to crissacrido.com/events and get your tell to this event and invest in your leadership and your business that's crissacrido.com/events.
 I can't wait to see you there.
 All right, so just to summarize what we're discussing so far. Everybody gives off silent signals. Everybody gives off cues from their body, the nonverbal cues.
 That's what we're talking about today. Everybody gives those off and to be an effective leader, a very positive tool for you to use.
 If you use it correctly, it's positive is to pay attention to those signals. It's to pay attention to how people are responding.
 The more that you understand responses and you tie them to the content to the specific circumstance that will help you to understand how somebody's feeling,
 not necessarily specifically what they're thinking, but how they're receiving information, all that kind of stuff.
 The way you would do this in a negative way is to assume that you're absolutely right until somebody what they're thinking and what they're experiencing in the moment.
 Even if you're right doing it that way, I promise you they're going to come back and tell you that you're wrong.
 Be very cautious with that. Instead, use it in a very positive sense to ask questions and to gain further perspective.
 Don't tell them how they are. Don't set their reality. Ask more questions and discover whether or not you're right. You may discover that you're wrong.
 So that's important key. Next thing I want to talk about is the signals that you give off. Now, it is very important for you to understand that your team,
 very often, takes your temperature. Very often they are looking at things that you're saying, ways that you're responding, ways that you're acting,
 taking your temperature and it is setting their tone, especially in meetings.
 In meetings, your physical, stature, your responses, the tones of your voice, all of those are setting a tone for the meeting.
 You might be coming into a meeting and struggling with something that came from a meeting you just came out of.
 And now you're carrying that into this meeting, which is supposed to be a great brainstorming session on how we serve our clients.
 And if that last meeting was a bad meeting, now it looks like you don't care about our clients.
 Even though you may have mentally shifted and you're trying to get to good quality information.
 So, you're carrying over emotionally some of the responses, then you might be physically responding in a way that sets a tone that says, "I'm just not happy.
 This isn't a good day, and this meeting isn't a good meeting for me, even though we just started this thing, right?
 So, in your conversations, in your one-on-ones, make sure that you're paying attention to the non-verbal cues that you give off.
 How do you respond when somebody says something that's not very productive or when somebody says something that is just silly or ridiculous?
 How do you respond? Now, I can tell you, from back in my days of youth ministry way back when, one of the things that we had to focus on is that we were dealing with youth, and we don't know their home lives.
 We don't know what they're experiencing, we don't know if they've experienced really horrible stuff. We just know that at any moment, they may say something incredibly shocking to you.
 And as a youth leader, you had to be somebody who wasn't shocked, wasn't surprised.
 You had to understand that the thing that they're saying, they may be trying to get a response from you. They may be trying to see if you reject them. They may be trying to see if you accept them.
 Guess what folks? Same thing happens with adults.
 So as a leader, you may experience with a team member that they are looking to see how you respond to their situation. So maybe they've screwed up at work or maybe something surprising has happened in their life.
 They are looking to you sharing information or informing you on this stuff to see how you respond. Are you going to respond upset? Are you going to respond with disgust? Are you going to respond with shock?
 Many of those non verbal cues. Obviously, they're going to understand if verbally you respond in you those ways. But if you don't respond verbally with shock, but your body tells them that you're just disgusted. This is crazy or whatever.
 That's what they're receiving that. What they're receiving from you because of your non verbals, your silent signals is that you think there's something incredibly wrong with them.
 I'm not saying that you don't think that. It could be something that is very difficult for you to swallow. It could be something that is disgusting. It could be something that is horrible.
 But as a leader, what is your job? Your job is to make them successful, which means that in difficult times or trouble times, instead of responding with disgust or how you truly feel inside, you might have to be very cautious and help them to see this doesn't surprise you.
 This doesn't shock you. You're here to help. You're here to walk them through the problem situation. You're here to help them to get to success.
 So pay attention to how you respond when things are uncomfortable. What normally happens to you? Do you feel the need to get into a power posture? Do you feel the need to self-protect or be defensive with your face and the shock on your face that somebody would question you on something like that?
 Whatever it is, be very cautious and very mindful of what you're doing. What's your posture? What's your body language? Are your arms crossed and tight across your chest? Are your eyes furrowed?
 What are you giving off? Are you smiling and not when you're supposed to? Or are you possibly smiling and not when you're not? What are the funny things that I have seen?
 What are you telling them something? Telling them something? Oh, that's good. No, that's good. No, that's good. And then the person changes subjects or topics. Yeah, my dog just got hit by a car. Oh, that's good.
 Do you watch somebody? I know I've done that once. I can remember time I did that and caught myself and what I am so sorry. I'm so sorry. I wasn't paying attention to what you were saying. I had to be honest because really I wasn't. I have watched people do that consistently.
 They are actually responding, nodding, shaking their head, smiling and then somebody drops something that's not happy and they just keep going. They just keep responding with that bad signal.
 Be very cognizant. How are you leading people with your cues? How are you responding to their individual situation? Another thing to watch out for. Are you saying that you're impatient with your responses?
 There are so many times that leaders are communicating to a team member that they do not have the patience for the conversation they're in or the thing they're trying to explain. Whatever. Watch that. So here's what I challenge you to do this week.
 I don't care if it's with a team member, if it's with a spouse, if it's with your kids, if it's in the line at the grocery store. I want you to start paying attention to both your non-verbal cues, the way that you're responding physically, the way that you're responding with your face, the way that you're responding with your arms, all that stuff.
 And start really paying attention to other folks. When you see the non-verbals do not just know for a fact that you're right about what they're experiencing. Use that non-verbal to ask questions to gain.
 Perspective. Here's the great thing. If you're right, then asking questions is just going to show that. So now you can start honing this craft. The great thing is when you're wrong.
 When you see a non-verbal, when you see a silent signal, and you ask perspective gathering questions, and you actually learn that that response was tied to this thought process.
 And again, like I say, the place you'll see this the most, where it doesn't align is high-sea personality styles. If you have not done your disk, why have you not if you've not had your team do the disk personality styles, why not go to criscer.com, go to the store, get it done, get it for your team.
 So when you see that in that high-sea, that's going to be something that helps you to fine tune their physical responses compared to S, I and D's, where it's going to align more with what's actually processing in their brain.
 So there you have it. Start paying attention, ask a ton of questions. Do not think you're going to know this week, everybody's silent signals. You're not really focused on asking yourself the question. Why did I just respond that way?
 Why did why were my eyebrows raised right then? Why are my arms crossed in this moment? Take a look at those things and use those to grow your leadership.
 Well folks, there you have it. Thank you for joining me today. I hope that it has served you well. I encourage you to subscribe, write and share the podcast to help more people join our community.
 And as always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]