 Hey folks, I have a question for actually, have a series of questions for you.
 Do you ever struggle to remember names?
 Do you ever forget important dates?
 Do you ever feel bogged down by all the details you need to remember in your job?
 Do you fail to recall what you were about to do or say in the next presentation?
 Do you spend more time looking for your to-do list than it actually takes to accomplish
 it?
 Do you go to the store for three items?
 Spend 75 bucks and walk out missing to them.
 Listen, this happens to everybody.
 Everyone.
 Today our guest is the amazing El Sampras with Maximizer Memory.
 Now let me tell you personally, we have been working with L for, I think, over five years,
 so much so that she's like an auxiliary team member on our team.
 She is a coach that we use.
 We constantly tell you, make sure that you have coaches in your life.
 I have plenty.
 My team has plenty.
 We coach tons of people all the time.
 It's important to have people who know something that you don't guiding and directing
 you on this.
 And L has been, like I said, that auxiliary team member for us.
 She's been helping us for so long.
 Today we are going to be talking about maximizing your memory.
 Now at 10 years old, she almost died from a traumatic brain injury.
 Then suffered from severe depression for many years.
 At her lowest points, she grew deeply curious about the brain mind body heart connection.
 She devoured everything she could about personal development, psychology, mindset, and neuroscience
 in an attempt to relieve her pain and turmoil.
 El's personal studies transformed into her purpose to help others experience that same
 inner peace.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 So please welcome to the show, El's on press.
 Oh, welcome.
 Thank you so much.
 It's so good to have you in studio.
 It's amazing.
 To have you about to go out and teach our next level of mastermind clients on this great topic
 that we're talking about today.
 But before we get into all of that in the questions and the things that you can help our listeners
 on, tell everybody about yourself.
 Tell people how you got to where you are.
 Yeah, well, so I actually worked in radio advertising for a long time.
 That was my first 4A into the business world and was a national sales manager, but I really
 started wanting to impact people's lives in a more personal way.
 It was just, I'm...
 And radio advertising didn't do that.
 It wasn't doing it for me.
 It was fun.
 I've got to see a lot of live music, but yeah, I have a compassionate heart.
 I've gone through a lot of healing and things myself and myself and I actually almost
 died of a brain injury.
 So it has always intrigued me of really how that crazy organ up in our head works.
 It's very complex.
 So I've studied it very extensively and got an opportunity to some training with a company that
 had merged in sort of bought out the memory training institute and worked with them for
 good 4.5 years, really learned the ins and outs of how our brains operate, continue to study
 psychology and neuroscience and all that on my own as well.
 And started learning just really how to speak from the stage and how to engage the audience
 and teach on a concept.
 So something that you were experiencing in a, you know, I would definitely say a negative way,
 something that's affecting you physically caused you to go seek out more understanding.
 And now you're teaching people all over the country.
 I think we were just talking earlier.
 You guys hit 40 different states in the last couple of years teaching people on this stuff.
 How crazy is that?
 It's absolutely insane.
 And it's been 16 years.
 Wow.
 16 years now.
 So exactly what is memory training?
 We explain all of that.
 Yeah, it's our brains are actually designed to work in the way that our system teaches you to
 use it.
 But we never learned it.
 We kind of learned from a process.
 You've probably heard of wrote memorization.
 You familiar with that?
 It's basically doing something over and over and over, hoping it sticks.
 Muscle memory.
 If it works, it works if it doesn't, then you're screwed.
 Yeah, I think about the way that you studied in class.
 You know, it's like you went and crammed for an exam and you hoped you could get it out on the test.
 But it's not really learning.
 Where instead, memory training actually is a set of skills and techniques that works with
 the natural way of the brain.
 So we first start off assessing people's natural level that they just are operating at right
 now.
 And then we teach them a little bit about how the brain works, the important factors of it,
 then we go into teaching the actual system.
 And it helps people do things along the lines of remember names better, give presentations without
 needing notes or lists of information.
 We've taught a lot of people how to use it for Bible verses or remembering the books of the
 Bible.
 All sorts of different things that it's applicable for.
 So 16 years have been teaching people how to do this.
 How long did it take you to learn it?
 Like how long was it for you to get to a place of going, oh, wow, this is really making
 an impact in my life?
 Yeah, you know, it's what's really interesting is the course.
 Because what I teach and what I present when I'm out there is exactly the same thing that I learned,
 that I teach others.
 So you can learn the process itself pretty quick in terms of the system and how to use it.
 And that was, you know, I teach it in about four hours now.
 You can do a full day.
 But in terms of becoming proficient and being able to really be out there, what I loved is that
 company had sort of a process where we had to learn first the first steps.
 And then the, you know, learn the system, learn how to use it.
 But then we also had to learn how to go out and do the introduction to that and, you know,
 give people the demonstration of the system, invite them to the workshop if they want to
 learn.
 But that's a process in itself of learning how to do that portion.
 Once you got that all down, then I learned how to be an instructor of the full course,
 which they taught over a seven hour period.
 But in our busy world today, I've just condensed it up and said, and people love it.
 So funny thing for me.
 I suck at remembering next.
 Yep.
 No, a face.
 I can see your fact there have been people that I've seen in a coffee shop on vacation.
 Yeah.
 And four years later, I returned to that area.
 They're at a different place.
 And I'm like, I know you.
 And then like, I don't know how you would.
 And I'm like, I don't remember your name.
 But did you work at the coffee shop over at the, you know, this hotel?
 And I'm like, yes, four years ago.
 I'm like, there it is.
 For some reason, I can do that really well, but when it comes to the name thing, it is just,
 and you know, what I've been told is, well, you just don't make it important enough.
 Well, you know, that is the first step, honestly, is is, but I think a lot of people know
 it's important and they want to.
 But we take it further because it's also one of the most fundamental things I start by teaching
 is the language of your memory is pictures.
 So the reason you remember a face is a picture.
 I've got that picture.
 Right.
 And it's like, what's a, what's a, what's a Joel?
 What's a Heather?
 You know, like, my brain doesn't know what to do with that.
 It's an abstract term.
 And so it makes it very hard for the brain to hold onto that information.
 So that is why you're completely normal.
 And every, maybe the first time you've ever heard that.
 Thank you.
 I have needed to know that.
 Others like Shake at her head.
 And I don't think so.
 But it's very common.
 Well, say, okay, that's good.
 So more common than normal.
 Okay.
 So you talked about the natural memory.
 What is the difference between like the natural memory?
 How does it operate compared to like a trained memory?
 Yeah.
 So a natural memory will generally what they've found scientifically is be able to hold onto about
 five to seven pieces of information for a lot of people quite honestly.
 It's one or two.
 Oh wow.
 Yeah.
 And it really depends because there's a lot of factors that come into play.
 I'm sure you can probably relate to this.
 Stress hurts our memory more than anything.
 And that's why a lot of times when we run into that person.
 And we're like, I know you are brain immediately pulls up the picture of the face.
 But then we go, what's happening?
 And the more we stress over it, we can't come up with it.
 We have a saying around here when you freak you freeze.
 Totally.
 I love that.
 Once you get into that freak mode, you literally shut down your brain, your body, everything.
 Absolutely.
 It's very, very true.
 And it's the same thing where if you walk into another room and then you start, what's
 I in here for?
 What's I in here for?
 The same next in a presentation, the more that we stress, the more brain locks up.
 So we help reduce that stress because now you have a system.
 It's almost like having mental notes, but you're not having to carry around a notebook and
 look like a weirdo all day long.
 So.
 I'm sorry, let me go to page 37.
 Right.
 Oh, how do you build how work it?
 So that trained memory, you're helping people to get to a place where they're not stressing,
 they're not freaking out.
 They have a process of getting to the thing that they need to remember.
 Yeah, it literally is such a full proof system works for anything.
 We use our memories and everything we do.
 It's how we function.
 Yeah.
 One day to the next.
 If we have complete amnesia, it's really hard to know who we are, where we're supposed to
 show up for work and all these other things.
 So it's important, but we can show people how to whatever you want to be able to recall,
 store it and then be able to retrieve it, access it.
 So what are a couple of good starter tips to help like everybody who's listening just to
 remember names?
 Yeah, that's a big one.
 I mean, that's probably the most common thing that we hear people struggle with.
 So these are a couple of starting points and they're very simple, but I always like to start
 people off with simple things because it's more easy to put them to you.
 If we overcomplicate it from the beginning, people tend to go back to what they've always done.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 I'll just live with it.
 I've lived with it this long.
 So one of the first things we always tell people is you need to train yourself to slow down.
 Really focus and listen in that moment and that can sound a bit overly simplistic, but that's
 the thing is it again, it's pretty easy.
 Does not happen naturally.
 They've scientifically proven our brains move about seven times faster than someone can speak.
 So what we're generally doing when we meet somebody, you already see, "Do you know, we're
 thinking about our handshake and our eye contact and where do you get that blue shirt?"
 And I'm kind of hungry.
 I wonder if he's hungry, should I?
 All these thoughts are going through and they're just giving one piece of information,
 just a name.
 Right.
 And we say I'm so bad with names.
 But I really challenge people to say, "I don't think you're forgetting them.
 I think you're often not hearing them in the first place."
 So every encounter, slow down and saying, "I'm going to focus and really listen to the
 name."
 And then a lot of people have heard this, but it's repeat that name back.
 But there are people who do this in a really obnoxious way.
 Oh, a drison.
 That's what something's doing back then.
 Yeah, we don't want to be techniqueing people.
 That's not what we're doing for us.
 When I worked in radio, there was a guy.
 And this is before I was in memory training, but I always remember, I was in management.
 All the managers are sitting in there.
 And he kept, "Well, so Kyle, tell me about this Kyle.
 And well, Brian, what do you think?"
 And Brian, you did, and I was like, "Why is he saying our name so much?"
 Like, I thought it was really weird.
 So it's just safe to think what the ad loves it to death.
 That's what I mean, he was such an amazing man.
 And one of the pieces he would talk about is how much people love to hear their names.
 And then people do that very same thing.
 And it's like, "Please stop saying my name.
 I know, that's not what I want to hear."
 No, not that much.
 I mean, because we actually joke with people.
 Like, it's about like a lot of electricity that goes through your body, which is why it feels
 good once.
 But you're zapping someone if you do it over.
 It's like, "Okay."
 So we say about two to three times, as you're meeting someone, and that can sound like
 a lot.
 But essentially, you're just going to say, "Is it Chris?"
 So, you know, if we were meeting, and I said, "Hi, my name's Elwitchie-name."
 Just Chris?
 It's Chris?
 Yes.
 And then you just go on and have a normal conversation where you're from.
 What do you do for a little-- you know, the basic small talk, you make your connections about
 whatever it may be, and then as you're leaving, it was really nice to meet you, Chris.
 Right.
 It's not putting it into every single sentence.
 But if in the beginning you slow down, you're hearing the name properly, because right,
 there's names like Bill and Phil that are going to sound similar.
 You want to make sure you're saying it correctly.
 I get that a lot with L. People want to call me L. Or L. And it's better in that moment
 to be able to say, "Oh, is it L, and I'm like, "No, it's L. Oh, L, nice to meet you."
 Because then at least if the person has logged it into their brain incorrectly, and they've
 actually made the attempt to log it, you're able to correct that and help them to, "Oh,
 it makes it even more like an emphasis on, "Oh, it's L."
 Oh, okay, I got you.
 Right.
 For what we teach here, so much of what we teach is on the worth side, the personal worth side,
 and fears and rejection and all this stuff.
 So when you are meeting a person, like you said, there's so many things going through
 your mind in a lot of times, it is, do I feel conflict with this introduction?
 Do I feel, "Oh, I feel like I'm supposed to say something smart. I'm losing worth because
 I just stumbled on whatever that is."
 And again, that focus is like you say, "It's on that part of what's going on."
 Now you're shifting it to, you're literally making the focus, let me repeat your name.
 Yeah. Let me hear this really pay attention and I'm going to repeat it back.
 And it just, it does write in of itself, bring in tip one, where you slow down, because you're
 like, "I'm going to say it back, I need to be listening, rather than thinking about,
 what are they thinking of me? Did they like what I say? Should I say this next?
 No, all these thoughts that go through every single person's brain."
 After you've done that, then you can stress the word out of that.
 But you can know they will, because who do people want to spend time with?
 The person that knows your day. That's right.
 So people, it makes people feel good. And honestly, it is a side benefit.
 Because I am showing them that they matter. That's very, very important to me.
 And if I can just remember someone's name, it's a simple thing, but not simple to do.
 But it's a little thing, but I think it makes a big difference. People every time go, "Oh,
 they perk up and they love that I remember who they are."
 Yeah, I will never forget. This became really apparent to me years ago.
 So I traveled for about 13 years doing huge events, traveled all the time,
 speaking, and I would literally meet thousands of people on a U-Do too.
 Oh, yeah.
 And you meet thousands of people. You hear thousands of names. And I'll never forget. I was in Grand Rapids,
 Michigan. And a guy came up to me and he's like, "Hey, Chris, how's it going?"
 I was like, "Hey, it's great." And he's talking. And he all of a sudden realizes,
 "I don't know who, I don't remember him." And I'm just being me. And he's like, "You don't know who I am."
 Right.
 And immediately, I feel horrible. I mean, it was not a cool way to do that. That was totally not legit.
 But all of a sudden, I'm like, "I'm so sorry, man. I really don't." Because we talked a year ago.
 And I'm like, "Do you have a clue how many people I know?" And he was totally disappointed in me, right?
 So he leaves. And I'm like, "That was really kind of rude." But also, it's kind of sucky on my
 part that, "Hey, I didn't remember him. I should not have responded in a way that made him think that I did."
 And that's not what I was trying to do. But by engaging him.
 But that's an important point. Because I do want to say this. Because it really does matter.
 People ask me this all the time. So what should I do if I do forget the name?
 Right.
 Right. And people ask me, "Do you ever forget names?"
 Yes. I do. Even as a memory expert, the trainer out there, I'm still human.
 Honesty is always the best policy. And I don't think that even in your case, you were trying to be dishonest.
 But we get uncomfortable. And so we just kind of want to skate around it and people say all the time,
 "Oh, yeah, I just start, you know, kind of call them buddy, or I wait for my wife to say,
 "And I'm like, everybody knows what that means. You don't call them.
 "They know you know what other thing."
 Right. And they're like, "Oh, I just wait, and I'm like, yeah, everybody knows. It's better if you
 can remember it." And if you can't just be up front and just say, "You know what,
 I'm so sorry. I'm failing to recall your name right now."
 Yeah.
 And it's really important to me.
 Yeah.
 What is your name?
 That's going to make someone feel better than trying to play it off.
 Yeah. He brought me his wife back 30 minutes later to prove that I didn't remember her either.
 No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No
 So important that everybody understands this. But you're about to lead.
 We've got a bunch of leaders and owners that are coming in.
 How does this apply in business? How does it apply for leaders, for business owners, for team members?
 How does this apply for them?
 Absolutely. I would say one of the biggest things, biggest requests I get from leaders, from sales people,
 is presentations. They want to know how can I be more confident when I'm presenting?
 And it's interesting because we split off and then started teaching presentation elevation as well.
 In present-like you. And the reason I present as well as I do is because I use the memory system.
 And so it think about it. If you're using notes, it's fine.
 But do you look more credible, more of an expert, more like you know what you're talking about when you don't
 need notes. But why do people use notes?
 Because they can't remember what they're going to say next.
 Right.
 It's the number one sphere out there as public speaking. Some of us love it, but even so get nervous because
 it's you know, you want people to like you, to like what you're saying. You want to know that you
 made an impact in your helping people, not just wasting their time. So it matters. It's important.
 And anything that's important, we kind of get a little nervous sometimes. So then you add that.
 What do we talk about? Herchabrain most stress. So you get up there and you're like, "I've got to look at my notes."
 But 7% of your message is actually in the words you say. 93% is in everything,
 alchirton, inflection, pace, posture, gesture, so much going on. If you're staring at your notes,
 you can't have real eye contact and really engage with your audience. You can't be natural because
 you're worried so much about what you're saying next. In our system, we give you kind of pivotal
 triggers and points to where if you kind of start to get tripped up on a little area, you know where to
 go to the next and it keeps you fluid and keeps you flowing. And this helps in conversations. We have a lot of
 people use this with sales scripts. We have this with, you know, answering objections. Obviously,
 you don't want it to sound pat in the best answer to an objection as a question. And we all know that.
 But in the same regard, we all have things that we know we want to be able to bring up benefits of the
 company or different, you know, features that are out there that might be helpful to somebody. So to be
 able to have a better handle on all of those things, all the details about what we do. You know,
 like a lot of real estate agents will use it for listing presentations or for houses that are out on the
 market. We'll be able to store it or to just be able to remember conversations or things you read.
 So for me, that's one of the things that we push a lot of these leaders like right there on the
 conversations like having tough conversations. Yes. Everybody hates having tough conversations. Nobody
 loves a tough conversation. But a lot of the folks that we teach are folks who are not that hard. I'm
 going to come in here, pulling a Chinese shop, you know, ripped things apart type of person. The folks that are
 in our programs are people who really do want to take care of other people, make people successful all that.
 So when they get in a tough conversation, one of the things they'll say is, I can't remember,
 like somebody's talking about something they talk so long and I can't remember and I try to write
 things down and all this and I don't know where I was going. And so then I'm in this tough conversation and
 I can't leave the conversation well so that I have to back out of the conversation and then 20 minutes
 later I'm like, oh wait a second. I had a really important point. I didn't get this out there.
 Or from the team members side. Yes. You know, of the, and we tell all the time to like our high
 SS high seas on the disc personality profile will say, you know, because they get stuck in the process
 and then they will latch onto one piece of specially high seas. They'll take the one thing they can't
 remember out of the conversation and forget everything else. Yes. Because well, I know I've got this piece.
 And then they completely miss it like, you know, a couple hours later like, hey, how's that going?
 Well, I did the thing. Well, what about this? You didn't say anything about that.
 No, I literally, that was the highlight of everything I talked about. So it helps not like
 presentations on that, but also in that moment like you said in those conversations, it can help you to
 remember where am I going or what should I be hitting in this time and being able to
 massively reduce the stress of the conflict. I mean, I'm assuming that helps really well with the
 conflict side of the conversation as well. Because when you're saying they're having a tough conversation,
 what does that immediately invite? It's stress. And so I'm wanting to make sure I don't really
 hurt this person, but that we can come to a mutual agreement or an understanding or whatever the goal is or
 they're objective. So reducing that stress so that if and this even happens in presentations,
 you know, I talk about a lot when people ask a question, you see presenters sometimes go,
 hold all questions, still the end. And I'm like, oh, because what a question's indicate.
 Right. Somebody's confused. They want more information or they're interested. I mean, people
 people don't ask questions if they just don't care what you're talking about. They're wanting
 more. So you want to engage that. But then of course, keep a hold of the room. But whether it's a one-on-one
 conversation, say I'm talking about something that's really important, but you start asking questions
 and it sort of veers off. And then like you said, I'm like, where are we going? Our system will
 allow you to come right back and just know exactly like because you'll have things stored so
 to speak without it really teaching you the whole system of mitromite not makes sense, but you'll
 have it basically stored that you can come right back to it and go in the next point.
 Well, I wasn't keep going. And the thing I love about this is it's not, you know, you got into
 this because you were literally struggling with something from an injury, from a... Yeah, it had been
 a while back, but it was something very important to me as we age. But you're an incredibly intelligent
 woman. This isn't an intellect issue. No, it's not at all. It is literally everybody has the struggles.
 You know, I'm, I would love to be the person who has that photograph. I don't know if I would.
 Maybe I wouldn't do it. But it has nothing to do with, well, that's just for this type of person.
 Everybody struggles with this. So what are some things that people are able to do at a higher level
 once they've learned how to train their brain to like recall information? Yeah. So everything that we've
 talked about so far, but even to do lists or grocery lists. I mean, we have so many people that say,
 I use this just a go to the store or run my errands because we all know we have that experience where
 we've gone to the grocery and we're just going to pick up bread eggs and milk and we spend 75 dollars
 and we're like home. Can we get the thing I need in the bread or we stand in the grocery store going,
 what was that? One other thing, I was going to get and we try and try and drive this crazy or you make
 a list, but you leave the listed home or you can't find it. So people have all these important moments
 just in the grocery store or I wanted to just stop and get my dry cleaning on the way home from work.
 Yeah. And I pulled into my driveway and go turn it, turn around and go back.
 So it's even just things like that that people love using for kids. But this, we're minding me of when
 you were saying a lot of people put their kids through this training because when you were saying for instance,
 it's not an intellect thing. So many children are performing poorly on exams and on testing,
 but they're not dumb. Right. And yet they feel like they are because they feel they're failing and they're
 struggling and then what does that bring on stress? And then I'm only going to prefer, so it's really
 testing, anxiety. But when you can teach children because think about so much of testing,
 as remember these five things, these ten things, this, you know, or to be able to do a presentation in
 school, I know for some kids that was horrifying to have to get up there because again they're
 afraid of being judged. So I've had kids walk out saying, I feel like I was cheating. That was so cool.
 Oh my gosh, that's awesome. I don't even think about that. Yeah, it really is. And it was funny
 because we were at the San Diego Zoo the other day and ran into a client from Chicago to Iran's Chicago
 title out in San Diego. And he was there with his wife and his daughter who's now getting ready to go
 off to college, but when they worked with us a few years ago, she was in high school and she was doing okay.
 But she had some seeds and she wanted to bring those up because college is on the horizon.
 And she brought all of her grades up. And he was like, that right there was worth it for my family.
 That was amazing. And she, you know, was like, oh my gosh, it's you. And she's getting into acting now.
 What should I need this immensely? Think about how this gets. Yeah. So I mean, but even, you know, as we were
 talking about scripture, there's a lot of people that that's really important to them to be able to
 or mission statements in a company or, you know, just details that you want to have for Beton that you
 want to be able to, you know, just lock in. Yeah. For me, I always want like if I'm watching one of those,
 I don't know, suspense movies are like one of those movies with like people in the CIA or
 something and somebody tells them a 32 digit code. And like they, they remember two hours later,
 they plug it in and they never wrote it down. I'm like, I want to do, I wish I could do that. I can't
 remember your phone number if you tell it. I'm sorry. What was that again? So that was a seven. Yeah.
 And look for my name in the credits. So that movie. I'm sure they've met me. No, you got it.
 So I also, you brought up because another thing that you do is you help people with their sales.
 And, and really instructing people really well on that. I think one of the biggest things that
 a lot of the companies that we work with struggle in like they're leading their sales team people
 because you something you mentioned. Scrips are great. Yeah. You should have. You should understand
 what it is that you should be talking about. You should understand your objections. But all of us
 have been on the phone with that person that you're like, dude, closure three ringbinder. Yeah. And just
 talk to me. All right. Listen, I want to hang up the phone right now. But let me help you with your sales.
 I'm really not going to buy the thing you're selling me because I'm just not. It's just bad.
 Right. But let me help you. Yeah. Have a conversation and it's so distracting for leaders as well.
 Yeah. If you feel like you have to go through a script and you had as you're talking to a person,
 that person is now no longer engaged because they're so focused on the script that you're speaking.
 Absolutely. And you're not engaged because you're focused on you're not really paying attention
 to who you're talking to. But what I always say is scripts are beneficial. But the point is to be able
 to embody them and be able to make them a part of you. So what we can use the system for is to just
 become so familiar. One point to the next to the next to the next to the next to nowhere you're going with it.
 And then just really reduce your preparation time. I always say this isn't a magic pill. It is a
 system and it does have to be applied. But it will help you recall your presentation quicker. It will
 help you get that sales script really down so it's natural quicker. And that's the thing. Is it's saving
 a lot of time? I love it. So with all the folks that are listening, what's one last thing you want them to
 hear, want them to know in context of this or anything else? I guess I would say the most important thing
 is anyone can do this because it's one of the biggest things I'm out speaking with companies and
 somebody puts their hand. I'm going to be the one who can't do it. A lot of skeptics, a lot of people
 think they're all, yeah, that's because this or they can do it. And people are nervous. Sometimes coming
 into the workshop or starting the training because they're like, what if I'm not able to
 everybody walks out improved? And it's not about perfection. It's about progress and I really do mean that.
 So that in itself is a key indicator. If you are already telling yourself you're going to suck at this,
 you definitely need this, right? Because what do you worry about failure? Yeah, fear of, you know,
 the stuff that we teach all the time. I'm afraid of failing. Yeah. Well, great. Don't look at this as a
 test. Right. Look at this as a tool that you're going to increase, you decrease your failure because
 you've spent time pulling this in. All right, one thing ask everybody if you were to go back to a
 young L, what is one thing you would tell her? Gosh, just realize you have every reason in the world to believe in
 yourself. Honestly, I mean, that almost brings me to tears. I was very insecure. I was, you know,
 popular and kind of good on the outside, but I was very insecure on the inside and it took me a lot of time.
 A lot of it, long time, to kind of work that through. And I just wish that myself is a young
 age, but anyone out there just knows your worth it, your loved, your lovable, just be you. Powerful. Good stuff,
 L. Well, we are excited about what's happening over the next two days. Yeah. So last question,
 how can people get in touch with you? How can they get more information on events on everything?
 Yeah. So probably the best way is to either shoot me an email or give me a call. Either way, it's totally
 fine. I'm available. You're not going to speak to a robot or go into some weird abyss. You'll speak to me directly.
 So you can reach me at 3108243878. Are you sure? I don't have to go. I don't know. Is that right?
 Yeah, as I'm absolutely positive. I'm not sure. Memorize my own number. I'm good. And then
 my email is L. L. E at my name, L. Sampress, E L. L. E S O M PR. E S dot com. I'm sure you can put it in the
 notes. Oh, yeah, we'll put all of this stuff in there and website all that every time you can check out
 the website at maximizer memory power dot com. Lots of good info on this. Well, thank you for doing this.
 Yeah, thank you for having me. Oh my gosh, absolutely. We need to do this again. Yeah. Literally,
 you have so many great topics that we need to cover for that week or our client. So we need to set
 this up again. I'd love to. Well, folks, hopefully that has helped you today. As you can see,
 oh, wait, what do I say here? Oh, wait a second. Okay. Have I overused that joke too much? Okay,
 maybe I have. Well, again, we hope that this has helped you. Thank you for joining me. I encourage you
 to help other people learn this stuff. Right? You can do that by subscribing, by rating our show,
 that helps us to reach more people and helps them to join our community as well. So as always,
 take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and don't
 forget. Join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]