 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardos Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 [MUSIC]
 Today we are sharing one of the questions in our next level mastermind Q and A.
 So in our next level mastermind group while they have all kinds of amazing things.
 They attend events, weekly stuff.
 They also have a monthly Q and A with me where they can ask anything.
 Doesn't matter what it is, it can be business, it can be leadership, it can be personal.
 And that is always loaded up with leaders and business owners to ask their questions.
 Today we are taking a question on meetings from Eric Stoll at Summer Town Metals.
 But here's what I want you to know.
 While you ask a question about how to set up a specific meeting,
 the information that I'm about to share is how to set up the team first and how to make sure
 that you are setting up the meeting for success by making sure that your team is set up in a successful way.
 So in those aren't in place, what you end up with is a lack of productivity, which is opposite of what you want.
 You again end up with confusion.
 And I'm not saying that every meeting that you have is a horrible meeting.
 What I'm saying is, if you want the best possible meetings,
 make sure the team is set up well before you get to those team meetings.
 So we are going to get to Eric's question right after this.
 I've never seen a leader that's had everything that they wanted.
 Out of thousands of leaders that I've coached, most are probably a lot like you.
 You wish you saw greater productivity unless drama from your team that you didn't spend your energy putting out fires.
 That you had more time to invest in your family and the things that you enjoy and you felt more equipped to lead your team to success.
 The only thing that's holding leaders back from the results they desire is having the right tools.
 And you can get those tools at the next level leadership live event.
 So if you're young, old, new, experienced, struggling or really successful, this event is for anyone who is ready to learn from 25 years of best practices that get proven results.
 It's not about short term fixes.
 In three days, I'm going to teach you how to have sustained revenue growth to generate greater productivity from your team and get immediate momentum toward the results that you want.
 It's going to be detailed, practical and loaded with how to's from the lessons we're teaching our clients have seen an average of 46% increase in growth profit in one year's time.
 That's one year's time.
 These clients are a normal everyday businesses and your business can have the same level of success.
 So if you're ready to see those results, go to crissacrido.com/events and get your tell to this event and invest in your leadership and your business that's crissacrido.com/events.
 I can't wait to see you there.
 I'm going to talk about sales meetings, sales team.
 You had a sales team of 10 people, how often would you conduct a sales team meeting to with the goal of being keeping morale building competitiveness between the sales team?
 Yes, of course.
 Yes.
 So before I get to the sales team meeting, there are certain aspects of a healthy sales team.
 It doesn't mean crap if you get to a sales team meeting and you're talking about exciting things or trying to encourage them.
 And we have all these other pieces that are missing when it comes to a sales team.
 So there are certain things you have to have first.
 So the first thing you need to have, if you have 10 sales people, you need at the bare minimum 1 liter.
 Bare minimum, right?
 Now, I don't believe if you have 10 sales people selling exactly the same thing day in day out, you can have one people lead 10 people.
 That's still a lot. I usually like to go 8 or less.
 And I would probably, if I had a sales team of 10, break them up into 2 groups of 5, if assuming they're selling the same stuff, right?
 And have 2 people out of those 10 be kind of like captains where they're kind of coaches, where the person can come to them and ask them questions.
 They're not their leader.
 Spending a ton of time making them successful. They're kind of like that captain that can give pieces of information, encourage and all that kind of fun stuff.
 Because too much put on one person makes it very difficult for that person to lead every single person to success.
 And you know what I'm going to tell you on that.
 It's their job to lead that whole team to success.
 The captain's also can support that team leader in the leader leading the captains to getting information to the rest of the team.
 Still the team leaders major focus, but it helps.
 You can look at giving the captain over a group a spiff.
 Maybe it's a you know, 0.025% of the sales of the other people because they do spend time giving advice or answering questions.
 But they should not be spending hours a week leading people, right?
 They need to do the sales themselves.
 So that's structure wise how I would look at that.
 The sales team leader you have to ask yourself the question you may already have a sales team leader or you may be thinking about a sales team leader.
 Always everybody who's been through strat plan has heard me ask this question what makes you think that person can lead that team to success.
 Seriously, the sales team leader of all people we make 90% of companies in his probably higher than that make the same mistake.
 They take somebody who's really great at sales and make them a sales team leader because they figure well they sold really well they must be able to lead people to success.
 What in the world makes you think that person can lead anybody to selling well.
 So if the person is not a great leader, don't put them in the role of leading the most important money making part of your business.
 You know, as a leader in that area.
 And there are, you know, a great example, I don't remember Bill Walsh ever played football, but I don't think Bill Walsh or Tom Landriever actually played.
 I could be wrong two of the winningest coaches ever.
 I don't think they ever actually played but great leaders, great coaches.
 They were able to teach people how to be great at what they were doing.
 They were able to teach people who were experts at playing the role that they were playing how to be even better.
 So that's what we're looking for. So those pieces in place. Next thing is men you got to have the accountability.
 Sales is a very important place for you to put accountability in. Now, two biggest problems with every business as far as Crystal Curtis concerned.
 For those of you that have been through strap line, you hear me say this. Number one by far communication.
 Black of quality communication is the biggest issue you have. You just don't realize it, right? Second thing is lack of accountability.
 If you do not have the pieces in place that you can hold somebody accountable, how can you possibly expect to hold them accountable, right?
 So if we don't have solid care raise for this and this goes for everybody, but you know, let's just point it out the sales team.
 If we don't have really solid care raise for the sales people, what we expect them to do every single day, how can we hold them accountable.
 If we don't have, you know, the expectation just had a second strap plan for a company in here a couple weeks ago.
 And you see this all the time the conflict between admin and sales is always laughable.
 Sales never has enough details and admin always wants way more details, right?
 The inability to actually hold your sales people accountable and say, would you please put the address down?
 Great. You now sold this, you know, I'm looking at Jeremy painting job. Where are the crap is it?
 What do we go? We don't know what he knows? I've got a crew set up to go. Where are they supposed to go? Right?
 I mean, you have to think through this kind of stuff. So that's not a situation that Jeremy went through. I was just thinking of Jeremy.
 So what is the, you know, make sure that you've got all the accountability pieces you need in place to hold the sales person accountable.
 If the only accountability you have is that they have to sell something today. Guess what? Morales going to be way low.
 Because all you keep doing is coming along and going, did you sell something? Great. So more sell another sell three of those, right?
 So you have to have the accountability piece in place. Next thing you should have if at all possible daily goals for every sales person.
 Now, some people can't do that. We've got millborn seeds was in here recently and they actually have sections of time where sales just do not happen.
 And so they don't have a dollar goal, but they have a contact goal, a, you know, communication goal, good quality conversation school.
 So as much as possible, if you can have a daily revenue goal, set it. Let it be legit. Let it be something that the team member and it might have to be different for different people.
 But we don't want to really go low on somebody and make it an excuse that, you know, they're not good enough.
 Make sure you're setting the revenue goals that they're going to hit, but set the revenues set the call goals, set the quality conversation goals, set the email goals,
 set whatever it is that they need to do in a day that they need to hit those goals. Why daily Chris, because when you set a weekly goal, if I don't hit it in the first two days, I still have three more days to get there.
 And then the next three days look a little bit more desperate, right? Set a daily goal. So I go out to those things two day it goes back to zero tomorrow.
 You know, it's okay to have a weekly goal, but point me at something today. Now, if all of those pieces are in place, I've got a great team leader.
 I've got possibly captains. I've got great accountability. I've got daily goals for them to go after.
 Now the meeting matters, right? Because all of those pieces are holding me accountable in my day, and I have things to shoot for. So now for me, a team that size, I would probably have a stand up meeting every morning.
 I would look to have a five to probably shouldn't be 15 minutes, maybe five to ten, maybe of a stand up meeting, because sales people more than anybody need some great encouragement to start their day.
 Admin folks usually don't, they come in and they're doing admin work, right? More than anything an admin person needs a well prioritized day done the day before. They need to close out their day and prioritize their next day so that they come in.
 They're already encouraged because everything's in control. It's in order they know what they're supposed to do. Sales person needs to touch, right? And I'm saying this is sumidly that these are all outbound sales people inbound sales people are more order takers.
 So this is an as important. It's really more difficult to set goals for inbound, right? So really focusing on the outbound side, the person who has the ability to sell outbound is, I mean, that's a very important role and it's somebody that is dealing with conflict on a continuous basis.
 Let's encourage them first thing in the morning. Talk about some goals that you've got going on, talk about exciting things definitely share testimonials if you've got them great job with this pat some people on the back don't leave, you don't have to pat everybody in the back, but don't go a long time of leaving it, you know, certain people out.
 I think it's very encouraging of what we've got to hit today and guys here's the here's the focus also if you can, if you don't have a weekly sales team meeting, I would I would have a weekly sales team meeting on probably the least productive hour of the week.
 Whatever that is it might be Friday at four o'clock, right, but look for the least productive hour of the week and that's where you go over sales training, that's where you go over mistakes that we're making, that's where you go over guys for the love if you do not get the address in the information.
 I'm going to come around with a mini base all that knock you guys upside the head make it happen, you know, I'm going to hold commissions, you know, I'm going to I'm going to do something get the information because you're affecting the rest of the company.
 And it's the same personality style that has the ability to call out and speak to people and deal with conflict also believes are the most important being in the whole business.
 So help them to understand their one part of the process.
 Yes, they're great for bringing stuff in, but they're one part of the process, right, it doesn't matter if they sell 10,000 jobs, if nobody can actually go do the jobs.
 So make sure that they have a really good balance of understanding that people need things done correctly. So if you can do that sales team meeting, then don't add a whole bunch of that stuff in the morning stand up meeting.
 If you can't do that sales team meeting, then I would include it in your morning meetings, maybe extend it to 15 minutes every morning, but make sure you're ending on a high something very encouraging testimonials.
 So and so has done a phenomenal job over here. So all of that on top of that.
 People repeat what they're praised for. So this is a crazy balance. This is a crazy balance.
 I'm going to spend a lot more time praising my people on their godly characters, character qualities type of stuff. I'm going to spend a lot more time trying to compliment those because I want them to be more Christlike and trust that God's actually sending us more business.
 That's where I live, right, I totally believe we get way more business than we put effort into.
 So I'm going to focus a lot on that, but understand they also need to hear that they're doing a great job with the talent that they have, the gift that God has given them.
 So make sure that you're complimenting people on those things as well.
 If your compliments are more focused on their sales than they're going to, you know, they're always going to be seeking that compliment. If they sell a $5 widget, did I do a good job?
 What do you think of me now? Right, so make sure that we're complimenting how they treated clients.
 You know, that so-and-so said, man, that was such a, it was the best sales call they'd ever experienced because the person was super nice and, you know, really seem to care about them.
 So compliment those pieces as well, but also compliment their ability to sell.
 So that's a lot of information, questions, thoughts, comments.
 That really helps me out. I got to mention out of the stairs to work on.
 Okay, if you do those things in the right order, and most people don't, what do we focus on?
 Go sell, go sell, go sell, and then we wonder why we can't hold them accountable and why people have loan morale, all that kind of stuff.
 If you hold me accountable and I know it and you give me the consequences with my choices and it becomes something that I can anticipate, then I don't struggle with that.
 When you don't hold me accountable and you keep asking me to sell, sell, sell, sell, sell, sell, sell, sell, sell, sell, sell, sell, sell, sell, sell, sell, and then three months later you go, why the crap are you doing this? You're not supposed to know that's wrong, that's bad.
 Why are you telling me now, right? So just keep those things in mind.
 There you have it, folks. If you are putting all of those pieces in place in that order, literally, if you are setting up the team itself in the right way, if you're making sure you've got accountability,
 if you're making sure that you're praising people for the right stuff, then when you get to your meetings, whether it's a meeting to encourage your team, whether it's a meeting to set direction,
 whether it's a meeting to call out some things that we're not doing well, because the other pieces are in place, your meeting becomes more successful.
 You're able to hit the things you need to hit, people are already aware if they've been held accountable for stuff, they're not surprised when things aren't going well.
 They're not surprised when things are going well in your praising them because you've done a great job in praising your team.
 If you have the right leadership in place, whether it's captains or a single leader whatever it is, they're not surprised at the amount of information that they have, because you have high levels of quality communication.
 You're doing all of the pieces to set them up for success.
 So instead of your sales team meeting or whatever your meeting is, being something where you're doing the bulk of your teaching and training, it can be the thing that you're hitting highlights on, that you're pointing them in,
 you know, with better training on how to do things better or hitting the things that they're doing really well or encouraging or just allowing them to be that team unit that is unified, that is moving in the same direction.
 If you don't have those things in place, then you can't be surprised that the team meetings really kind of suck, that they're not helping, that they may be causing more confusion and more issues.
 So put these things in place, make it a focus that you set the team up for success.
 I don't care if it's your sales team, if it's an admin team, if it's a marketing team, whoever it is, a production team, whatever it is, set the team up, set the leadership up, put the right pieces in place and you will have phenomenal meetings as well.
 Well there you have it, I hope that has helped you today.
 Thank you for joining us, I hope it has served you well.
 I encourage you to subscribe, rate and share the podcast to help more people join our community.
 And as always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 See you next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]