 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show.
 Today we are going to do something a little different with everything that is going on in the
 world.
 We want to encourage you and give you some hope as well.
 So whether you are a business owner or a stay at home parent who has suddenly become your
 kids teacher, we want to encourage you during this time.
 So today we're going to share with you part of the conversation that Joel and I had on our
 Facebook live recently.
 So if you want to watch the entire discussion, please visit our page on Facebook.
 We hope you find some good news in the conversation today, and we thank you for joining us.
 Well, hey, welcome folks.
 I'm Joel Forner.
 I'm Chris Licardo's VP, a leadership development working everyday with clients and coaching
 clients, especially working a lot lately with helping entrepreneurs and owners and leaders
 navigate this whole COVID impact.
 No doubt has touched your life unless you've heard of it.
 If you haven't heard of it, you may be better off actually.
 You know, be just stay where you're at.
 Stay where you're at.
 You're at the same time.
 I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the
 fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the
 process of doing that.
 I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the
 process of doing that.
 I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the
 process of doing that.
 I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the
 process of doing that.
 I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the
 process of doing that.
 I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the
 process of doing that.
 I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the fact that I'm going to be a little bit more focused on the
 process of making sound decisions.
 So Chris and I are going to have another conversation about that today for 30 minutes talking about fear,
 talking about self care and even talking about what it looks like to build your business and prepare for the future and answer questions like what should I be doing today as a leader as an owner that Assuming I survived this and we know the reality is some businesses that just probably won't.
 It's heart breaking and it's sad.
 But for those who do, Lord willing, what does it look like to prepare for your future?
 So Chris and I are going to talk a lot about that today.
 So Chris, why don't we dive in first, right at the top here and talk a little bit about fear and self care.
 A lot of entrepreneurs and leaders, especially I've talked to this week, tend to have a fear of the future.
 It's a fear of man, what's going to happen with the economy, especially long term.
 What would your advice be to them today?
 Well first I'm going to say that you're positioning.
 It looks so karate kid behind you, the tree behind you, looks there and it's that's a full tree.
 It looks like the karate kid emblem that was awesome.
 Yeah, I love it.
 It's been interesting lately over the last couple of weeks that we've been talking to a bunch of entrepreneurs, a bunch of leaders.
 We've had kind of a mixed message.
 One of the things that I have absolutely loved to hear is that all the folks that have been through our stuff that are like man.
 I've been prepared.
 You know, this is going through all of those that have prepared me to be exactly right here.
 I was talking with Jeremy Reeves yesterday.
 And he was talking about how he was going through the fear less than the one this hits and that it helps him to actually lead his team because he was prepared.
 And he was being prepared.
 So I think there is for a lot of folks out there, there are people that have been working on this stuff and have been getting prepared and that's fantastic.
 That's great.
 We love it.
 We're super proud of you guys.
 But that's not everybody. There's a lot of folks that are struggling. There's a lot of folks that are scared and listen to we are the last people who want to sensationalize anything.
 We are not we are the anti fear, Mongers.
 We are always pushing against do not be afraid.
 So as you hear me say that there's a lot of people who are fearful that our goal is not to blow this thing up and make people fearful.
 We want to tell you not to be fearful. Our goal is to tell you hey listen, don't be fearful.
 So as we talk about this, for those folks who are still struggling, for those folks who are concerned that are worried.
 The question that you ask is how do we take care of ourselves?
 By far, if you can't lead yourself in this process right now, then what you're going to discover is it's incredibly difficult to lead others.
 So as I'm talking about the fear side, this is probably going to be something that we talk about even a few more times.
 You have got to make sure that you are not living in fear.
 You've got to make sure that you are not allowing lies and fear to control your decision making.
 We talk about it all the time in next level life that when you have fear or something, whether it's men's opinion, whether it's bad things happening, no matter what it is, what it does is it affects the way you make decisions period.
 So first thing you've got to start doing is making sure that you are getting to a place where for those of us that are believers.
 If you're not a believer, then I suggest spending some time in the word and just reading the book and saying what you can find in God's word.
 For those of us that are believers, you've got to get to a place where you're trusting that the King of the universe is God.
 And not so promised, he did not wake up this morning and go, what in the world, what is this COVID-19?
 I just like saying COVID-19, that's twice I've gotten to use that.
 He's not surprised on what's going on.
 So you've got to know that the King of the universe loves you, he's crazy about you, he has a plan.
 He knows that this is going to suck, he knows that there's a lot of crap going on, this is going to be difficult.
 Second thing is, is that it is vitally important. One of the lessons that we're going to be teaching, Heather is going to be teaching at the next level leadership live event is on stress management and health and how to affect you.
 If you're stressing out, then I can promise you, you're affecting your body in horrible ways.
 You're dumping a bunch of cortisol into your stomach, you're probably dumping a bunch of adrenaline into your stomach, there's things that you're doing that's actually wearing your body.
 If your body is getting worn down, you're not going to be good to anybody.
 So you've got to take really good care of your health, make sure that you're not doing something that a lot of us do, which is we try to eat our feelings.
 You know, I used to be an emotional leader a year ago before I understood that I was a emotional leader.
 Don't be an emotional leader, don't be an emotional drinker, don't do the things, stay away from sugar, take care of your body right now with very healthy choices.
 Not crap stuff, so that you can actually be strong-lift, I mean, probably even if it's just to avoid catching the virus, right?
 You've got to take care of these things about you first and then you've got to look at the most important place and that is to your family.
 How is this impacting your family? Now, man, I'm going to speak to you guys for a second.
 You have to understand that your wife is a little bit more sensitive to the security side of things than you probably are.
 So what are you doing to encourage her and help her to understand that, hey, you're going to do whatever it takes.
 It doesn't matter, I was, I was at a friends the other day and her fiance, I love it.
 I came over and talked to her and she's like, hey, Josh, I need to get a job, I mean, this is a guy who makes a lot of money as a mechanic. He's does a great job, but he doesn't have enough high in their all high in vehicles.
 And so he's busted in a public. She's like, hey, he had to go get a job, you know, he just wanted to go get some more money and you know, so he's working at publics at nine time.
 I'm like, I'm so proud of him for doing that, right? He's doing whatever it takes to take care of his family. And so that's a thing to think about is, how do you ensure that you're going to take care of your family? How do you make sure that they're not freaking out during this time?
 So taking care of you is not just enough to take care of you.
 Also take a hearted look at those that are looking to you for leadership guidance directions, security, all that kind of stuff ladies, your man needs a lot of strength right now.
 He needs a lot of encouragement. He needs to see that you're not freaking out as well.
 The last thing you want to see is that your man's freaking out. He doesn't need to see the chair for a can out, right?
 So make sure that you're pumping him up, give him encouraging discussions, help him to know that you're behind him and you trust them and you believe in him.
 If we can do this for each other, then all of we can both get out there and you know, for leading the teams or the businesses that we have.
 So thanks to be thinking about, say, I'm very sorry.
 So let's speak to the business leaders and owners right now that are just flat out the freight about money.
 That they're worried about cash flow. I mean oftentimes wins no, not worried about cash flow, but especially now with time to manage cash flow really, really tightly.
 And then looking to man, what's it going to be? So there's this balance that owners and leaders have to have to walk such as I have a team and a business to run today.
 I'm trying to tighten up on expenses, but I don't know what's coming. I don't know what to project. I don't know what to forecast, but I need to be ready for if it's there.
 And so kind of the better question, maybe even speaking about cash flow is even helping is being able to focus on the things you can control when it comes to projecting for the future and being ready for it. What's your advice there?
 We've got to talk about it this morning in our own business. We had our own team meeting this morning talking through some of the things that we need to focus on.
 I live in my accounting. It's one of the things we teach that kind of stuff that you need to understand what's happening in the numbers.
 Because that's my decision making process for business. I have four different businesses. I need to know what those businesses are doing.
 So I can project what's going to happen in the future or what I need to stop doing change, you know, move whatever.
 So one of the best things you can do if you are a leader who's over the piano or if you're the business owner, then definitely.
 Or you might be the the the comptroller. You might be the accountant. You might be somebody a CFO inside of the business that you work for.
 Right now is the time to be going to every single thing on the books. Everything. Taking a look at every dollar taking a look at every expense taking a look at every decision that you're making.
 And really start prioritizing the things that you can cut right now and get rid of.
 So I can talk about this to our next semester. I'm going to say that one of the things to kick immediately is for for some of you. You might have that 401k match.
 You know, this is not. This is not an important thing right now in the moment now.
 If you have no problem with your finances then keep that going because everything's on the cheap right now. So right now is the perfect time to be buying.
 And the market right now because it's a smart time to be putting money in the market. It's on the cheap go get it.
 But if that's not where you are as a business. You've got to start making some really smart decisions start listing out all the different expenses that you might need to boot.
 That would be a smart one. Take a look at, you know, some of the things that you've been doing maybe it's your buying expensive coffee for your team. I don't know.
 Maybe it is that you guys are doing special trips every once in a month out. Whatever the thing is go through those expenses and start listing out.
 Stuff you might want to just cut right now. Anyways, you know, we had a discussion this morning was like, hey guys, we're not spending money on anything we don't need right now.
 And we're a business that's doing good. I mean, we've we've prepared for this kind of stuff for 20 years. So in this business that we've been doing for the last seven years we're in a place where we're prepared for the bad times.
 But that doesn't mean we make stupid decisions. So go through those expenses take a hard look at that.
 The other thing I want you to think about is, how do you not cut essential things that may appear to be non-essential. So if you are if marketing is keeping clients in front of you and it is bringing money inside of the building do not cut that.
 Maybe make smarter decisions. But a lot a lot of times a lot of leaders or business owners will go and start cutting things that's actually helping the business to continue growing or stay afloat or whatever thinking, oh, we don't need that right now.
 And it happens to be the thing that's kicking them a lot. Please now. So those are a couple of things just on the financial side that you could look at. Another thing is is take a hard look at what you can do for your vendors.
 We keep talking about this. We were talking about this just a little while ago. We're looking at I'm sorry our clients not a vendors.
 We were looking at how can we be even a better tool for our clients at that time like this. So one of the things that people have to understand is, unfortunately, because of how painful and difficult this is going to be.
 There's going to be a lot of folks who are not prepared for for downtime like this. I hate it. It's heartbreaking. There's going to be a lot of folks that are going to probably end up having to close their doors.
 I've got some fun things that or the light is coming through and shining on me like crazy. That's awesome.
 I've got this funny looking earring now right from the light. There's going to be some businesses again.
 Understand this breaks our heart that this is going to happen. People are going to be experiencing this.
 But here's what I want you to be thinking about. If your competition is not going to be here for a month, two months from now. What does that mean for you?
 You become incredibly insensitive and goblistic and start calling on people to tell them that your competition is not going to make it all that kind of crap.
 We smart. Show people that you can serve them and take care of them.
 But also be prepared that you might have people you can take care of more than you did more than you had a month ago.
 So one of the things to be preparing for is what's happening with your competition. Is it possible that they're not going to have their doors open at that time?
 And if so, then what does that mean for you? How do you jump in and help out all those clients who now need your product, your service, whatever you've got.
 So you are not hearing me say that you know go counts on your competitors. So treat people a crap. That's not what I'm saying at all.
 What I'm saying is prepare for the future. What do you do? So one of the things we're discussing is how do we help our clients take advantage of whatever the situation is where they are.
 So those are the things that you can do to prepare for the future.
 Hey folks, here's my question for you. How many of you have always wanted to attend the next level leadership live event?
 Well guess what? Do to this fantastic coronavirus pandemic, you now have the opportunity to see the next level leadership live event live stream.
 Yep, the entire three day event is now going to be online April 29 through May 1st. So this is your opportunity to attend the next level leadership live event at home.
 Here's the deal folks. We are going to get through this together. Our goal is to help you by giving you the plans to not only survive, but to capitalize on the other side of this economic downturn.
 So to do so, go to Chrissacurdle.com/livestrengthassineuptoday. That's Chrissacurdle.com/livestrength.
 So speaking of future, there's a lot of people right now, just at the sheer notion of scaling their business or building for the future may seem very offbeat.
 It may seem like what are you talking about, Joel? How could I be doing that? Why should I be focused on that right now?
 But to your point, a lot of businesses will survive this. They will be in a place to capitalize and rightfully so, rightfully so, because there are still people, there are businesses in consumer, so still need to have needs and wants to be taken care of and you're in a place to do it.
 So if I'm a business owner today, and I'm thinking about preparing for the future, and I'm not really fighting to keep my doors closed, I'm doing okay. I have the bandwidth and we have the ability to work on the business right now.
 And one opportunity I see is preparing for the future or scaling and taking advantage of an opportunity. Where should my decision making start if I'm that person?
 So for us, that is one of the things that we're going to be teaching on at the next level of the ship live event. What do you do right now? What are you doing this time? How do you take a look at scaling your business? What does scaling your business look like in a healthy way?
 Now, I want people to understand when you do it right, then you have clients like we do who are saying, hey, we're prepared because we've been following the stuff you teach for years.
 We've been doing this stuff that you teach for years. Therefore, we're prepared in a time like this, we're making smart decisions. It doesn't mean that we are not hurting with loss of clients and all that kind of stuff.
 But we're good. We're doing well. That is the key. You have to understand there's a lot of people out there selling their magic pills on how to make you, you know, seven figures in 37 seconds.
 Okay, those are the folks that usually come to us afterwards and go, okay, show me how to do it right. Right now is the right time for you to be looking into your business and asking the question, what is not operating well? What is not going right?
 When we do things like strap plan, one of the things we show people is all of the things that are holding them back from scaling all the things that are keeping them from growing well.
 We're not sitting there telling people, go leverage your whole life so that you can try and make another $100,000. So you can try and make a million dollars.
 Instead, we help people to take a hard looking side of the business and ask the question, what's not going right right now? What's not working right?
 The first two places we're always going to point people when you're looking at the business as a whole is what is your communication? How is your communication at a time like this?
 How how high level is it? How good is it? How quality is it? Are you guys able to actually make sure that you're communicating incredibly well, especially since there's a really good chance most of you are working in remote right now?
 How well is that communication happening? Another piece is what do we have in place for accountability? If we look through our systems, if we look through our processes, what are the things that we have in place that are making sure that we're going to be successful?
 What are those areas? So these are just a couple of things that you should be looking at your business and saying, what needs to be short of what needs to be fixed? What do I need to focus on? Now I will tell you as a leader, there's a couple of things you need to think about.
 One is if you are overtaxed overwhelmed right now, we call it being stock in the leadership crazy cycle. If you are doing a thousand different things in a day and you're spending about five minutes leading your team, that is not the place you're supposed to be in.
 You are supposed to be leading people to success. So if that's what you're experiencing right now is that you're still overwhelmed, you get all kinds of stuff going on, you're trying to figure out how the best way to get all the tasks done in a day.
 That is not your best utilization of you as a leader. Instead, you need to be taking a look, especially right now at every person on your team and asking the question, how do I make sure that this team member is set up for success?
 How do I look at each role? We did that over a week ago, we sat down and we took a hard look at every single role in the business and asked the question, what changes? What doesn't change? How do we redirect somebody?
 How do we make sure that these folks are set up for success? If you've got somebody who is a salesperson who has been getting most of their sales by income and calls,
 and right now you're trying to push them outward, then guess what? They're probably not experts at that right now. So you as a leader need to sit down no matter how long it takes and figure out, how do I set this person up to be able to be successful at this cost?
 How do I make sure that they're not trying to sell something to somebody who could absolutely care less about the product that I'm trying to sell? So all those pieces of, how do I set this person up for success? How do I set up?
 I've got administrative people that right now don't have enough on their plate like a fetket. Thank you dear. Taking a lot of my forehead. Folks, all those people that might not have really good handle on will, what do I do in this time?
 I usually process all of this information from another team member and now I'm sitting there with nothing to do. Can you point them in another direction? Can you get them focused on something else? Can you get them researching something that can help you to push the business forward?
 So as a leader, if you're spending your day filling it with tasks and guess what, you're not leading anybody. The scary thing is is a lot of leaders say well, I don't know how to lead.
 So I'm just going to give you the best short piece of this right now. There's we teach you ton of stuff on how to be a great leader. I'm going to give you the most important piece right now.
 Take a hard look at the role and ask yourself the question, how do I make this role successful? No matter what that means.
 Whether it's encouraging a team member, whether it's learning a new software program, whether it's learning how to research better, whatever it is, how do I make this role in this team member successful right now?
 If it's a role that doesn't need to keep going in the way that it is, how do I adjust this role to make this role successful?
 So one of the things I hear coming through and what you're talking about is not only just efficiency, but something else, Chris, that we teach leaders to do and that's to cost just to firewalls.
 Is always make sure the roles cost justifying, can you go into, I don't know, one or two minutes of explanation behind cost justification and why that's so important.
 So for me, every role has to pay for it so, right? So people, especially, solo printers will ask me who's your first hire.
 My answer is always one of two people. It's the opposite of what you're doing. So if I'm the one who's making it rain, if I'm selling things, you know, doing, getting bringing money into the business and I'm doing it really, really well, then I probably don't need to hire another version of me immediately.
 Maybe I can, but if I have to keep doing all the administrative side of the sales side, the market, whatever I'm doing to bring money in, then I'm only getting probably about half of my time bringing money in.
 So instead, if I hire somebody to do the administrative work, I can push that on them and spend all of my time making money for the business right now.
 So it would be an administrative person. If it was the other way around, making I'm not a great sales person, but I've been making things happen and really do a good job on the administrative side.
 Bring somebody to go, sort of, fire out of your product or service and then you stay where you are building that piece up.
 So when you, you know, for everybody who's watching most of the people probably already have a decent size team, so look at that concept. If I hire somebody as an administrative assistant for however much money.
 And it allows me to bring in, you know, I pay this much for the admin, but I can bring in this much more money. That's cost justification.
 They've paid for their salary, they've paid for the taxes, they've paid for employment, they've paid for the computers, the stuff.
 It's made, it makes sense to have that person on board because taking admin off of me allows me to go sell more gives me more capacity to go make more money. So that's the concept.
 So right now when you look inside of your business, if you've got an admin person that is twittling their thumbs and you're paying them a full salary, have to ask yourself the question, how long can I do this?
 You know, what can I do differently? How can I readjust them? How can I point them in a different direction? How can I, you know, what's the thing that I can do to use them for to create that revenue inside of the business? So I can keep paying the team member, right?
 So it might be that you again, you redirect. We took one of our ops guys and he's focusing on content stuff right now. So that's helping us to get some content stuff out because it also happens to be really good writing.
 That's helping us to get some content stuff created that removes that pressure from other team members so they can focus on something else.
 That way, they're still doing stuff that we need to get done and allows the other team members to focus on other things that we can hopefully bring money in.
 And now everybody's touched justifying inside of the business.
 So I'm not expecting you to nail this down like you're making a ton of money off of each team member, but when things are going well, if I'm looking at somebody who's administrative, I really would like to bring in at least four times the salary.
 That I've paid them. If I can say that somehow the job that they're doing is creating three to four times the amount of salary, that's pretty darn good.
 If I can get more of that great.
 If it's somebody who in the reason why I say four times is because there's a whole lot of expenses that goes with every single roll with everything that we do, right?
 If it's somebody who's bringing in money, sales or something or marketing that I'd like to see ten times the amount. I'd like to see that amount because their process actually is easier to create the revenue from.
 That allows us to spend more money bringing in more money.
 I don't expect you to get those numbers in a downtime like this. I expect you to say, can I paying this person, bringing in the money, my cost justifying by not losing money in this area, if at all possible.
 So makes sense.
 Yeah, that's excellent. I'm sure that was super helpful.
 So ladies and gentlemen, this is thanks again for those who tuned in. I hope that was super helpful.
 One of the takeaways. I hope that you're hearing come through and what Chris is teaching is that no matter what the circumstances are, it's that it's your job as a leader to make your team successful, not the other way around.
 So it's your job to make them successful through smart decision making the starts with taking care of yourself, self care, focusing on making every person successful, every role successful, and you will be more likely to weather this and be in a great position to capitalize on the other side when things calm down and even out.
 I believe they will. So thanks for tuning in. Chris, thanks for the time. I'm brother, man. And ladies and gentlemen, we will use soon.
 [Music]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]