 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show.
 Today we are going to do something a little different with everything that is going on in the
 world.
 We want to encourage you and give you some hope as well.
 So whether you are a business owner or a state home parent who has suddenly become your
 kids teacher, we want to encourage you during this time.
 So today we're going to share with you part of the conversation that Joel and I had on our
 Facebook live recently.
 So if you want to watch the entire discussion, which is almost about two hours, let's
 good stuff there, please visit our page on Facebook.
 We hope you find some good news in the conversation today and we thank you for joining us.
 You know, in life as we experience, if we can't lead ourselves, well, man, it's hard to lead other people.
 Chris, what should people be focusing on right now, especially those leaders out there, what
 should they be focusing on right now to lead themselves better?
 So we talked with a bunch of our next couple of national clients.
 We did a discussion with them on Wednesday where we just put all of them into a big zoom
 call and we went through a bunch of this stuff because it's something you need to be hearing.
 The first thing I'm going to hit is the fear part.
 For me, this is not a struggle for me when it comes to fear.
 So I am a believer.
 I am what I would consider to be a strong believer in Jesus.
 I know we have a lot of people who follow us on our believers.
 So, you know, I can't really speak to the fear part if you're not a believer.
 Well, I can only speak to it for what I do know.
 That is, I am keenly aware that the God who created 95 billion light years of space, the God who created billions of galaxies
 inside of one universe, even the top scientists say that it happened so precisely was like hitting a one inch target 20 billion light years away.
 That's not going to be a big deal.
 That God is big enough to take care of every problem across the planet.
 Every struggle, everything.
 And so for me, fear and times like this, I look at fear two ways.
 We talked about this the other day.
 There's two kinds of fear.
 There's the hay on being chased by a line.
 That's a legit fear.
 That's actually a smart fear.
 Try and make sure you're not the slowest person.
 If you are in a situation like that, if there's something bad about to physically happen to you, you're about to get attacked or something like that, that's an ok here.
 That is a butterfly mode respond well to that.
 Take care of yourself.
 The other fear is the one that we spend so much more of our time and it comes from the enemy.
 And that fear is the fear of something that has not even happened yet.
 That fear is near that something terrible is possibly going to come something's looming something whatever right.
 So we have two different types of fear that people are facing when it comes to this virus.
 When it comes to this situation, one is the legit, hey, close yourself in.
 You know, like yourself up, stay it is perfectly ok.
 I know people who are like, I'm not afraid of this virus.
 I'm going to go everywhere.
 Well, what listen, if you get sick, then you can't be surprised that you actually did get sick by putting yourself in those places.
 I think there are smart choices that you can make.
 One of those is lock yourself down.
 Now we we closed the business doors.
 What it sounds so weird.
 You know, everybody's working remotely, but everybody's still working, right?
 And so I have gone out to the store a couple of times, you know, I've had to get out.
 There's no doubt about that, but for the most part, I've been staying away from people, right?
 Because it's a smart choice.
 I don't want to have to go through the process.
 So there's no fear at it though.
 There's not being a frightening that I'm going to contract the virus.
 Now, if you're somebody who's struggling with an immune system issue or something like that,
 well, then that might be a smart fear.
 If you're elderly and you're struggling as well and you're worried about contracting it, then that's smart.
 Makes smart decisions, but don't live in fear.
 When it comes to how this is going to impact your life, how it's going to impact your business,
 how it's going to impact your team, fear needs to not even be a part of it.
 Guys, I got to tell you, and I know a lot of folks are like, how in the world are you not afraid?
 Well, I'm not afraid because I believe that God has my best interest of heart.
 I am somebody who has been spending decades working on my relationship with God.
 I've been, I'm somebody who has grown immensely, and I don't do the, you know,
 the little devotional once a day and pray only it meals.
 I'm talking about he is the most important thing in my life.
 Everybody who knows me, everybody who is around me or spends any time with me knows.
 My family understands there's nothing more important than God.
 Why? Because he's the one who owns me.
 He's the one who holds my attorney in his hands, right?
 He's the one I'm going to spend my attorney with.
 He's the one who, if you go out into your yard and you take a shovel full of dirt and flip it over,
 if you're looking at halfway decent place, you're probably going to find millions,
 if not billions of organisms that he's created, right?
 Well, I'm most amazing things to me is no matter what you look at, everything has its own sound.
 That just blows the way that he had to get it sound for everything.
 That's how big God is.
 So for me to think that he doesn't have my best interest at heart, makes me think it's only God.
 And he's just not small to me. And so I don't fear.
 I trust that he knows what's going on. He knows what's happening.
 And he knows what he's allowing. He knows what he's going to do in my business.
 So fear is the first thing that you just have to get past, right?
 So for me, John and I and Heather, we all talked about what on Sunday,
 what are we going to talk to the team about what, you know, what do we,
 how we set up this week? And the first thing, you know,
 is like, well, what's going through your mind, how are you experiencing this?
 I'm like, oh, you know, obviously, I want to make sure that everybody understands their,
 their leader is not afraid. And then I want to make sure that I understand the messaging that I'm going to share with my team.
 And I'm going to lead my team in this time, so that they're not afraid.
 So that they are going to God. So that they're trusting God.
 We have a phenomenal teaching environment at our office.
 It's what we do all the time. And so come Monday, that was one of the big things.
 We were all virtual. We looked like the Brady Bunch as we were meeting.
 Everyone's looked like lately.
 Everybody's, everybody's one of our team members sent that out of like everybody's staff meeting.
 It looks like the Brady Bunch this.
 And so one of the things that I shared with them is, guys, your leader's not afraid.
 I don't want you to be afraid. I want this to be something you focus on.
 You know, spend time in Friday with God.
 Spent time knowing that he has got this and we're going to be perfectly fine.
 We're going to be okay. And we're going to do everything we possibly can.
 It doesn't mean that we're not going to run into troubles down the road.
 We'll talk more about that in a little bit.
 But I want to make sure my team is doing good.
 [Music]
 Hey folks, here's my question for you. How many of you have always wanted to do this?
 I've always wanted to attend the next level leadership live event.
 Well guess what?
 Due to this fantastic coronavirus pandemic, you now have the opportunity to see the next level leadership live event live stream.
 Yep, the entire three-day event is now going to be online April 29 through May 1st.
 So this is your opportunity to attend the next level leadership live event at home.
 Here's the deal folks. We are going to get through this together.
 Our goal is to help you by giving you the plans to not only survive, but to capitalize on the other side of this economic downturn.
 So to do so, go to Chrissacurdo.com/LiveStream to sign up today.
 That's Chrissacurdo.com/LiveStream.
 [Music]
 How important is influence right now?
 Because that got me thinking like, what if you're not surrounded by people, or you don't have a leader like you that's saying,
 Hey, we don't need to be afraid. We need to be smart.
 But what if it's a person that they don't have that?
 They've got doomsday, naissayers, people who are very fearful in their life today.
 What do they need to do?
 So Heather had a great question for people. She said, are you spending more time with CNN or NIV?
 You really have to think about this. What is your for us?
 Our is an LT. We spend our time in the NLT.
 You have to take a look at who's influencing you and what's influencing you.
 Now I stopped watching the news. I found, I don't know how long ago was.
 One was a voice. One was a voice and a voice.
 It was a year ago. Who's running against the hanging chats? What was his name?
 Al Gore.
 I found myself, I used to watch the news every morning as I was getting ready.
 And I found just getting frustrated.
 I had, I stopped watching the news since then.
 Literally people for decades because I feel like that's been decades.
 People for decades have been like, "Kristen, do you know this is going on?
 I got really not until you tell me." Because I just don't spend my time watching the news.
 Why? I cannot stand the sensationalism.
 I cannot stand the fear mongering.
 Folks, if you're spending time being influenced by somebody who gets paid to make you afraid,
 change your influence.
 Change your thinking influence. If you're spending time, I don't know what your Facebook feed looks like.
 But I can promise you this. My social, I don't really spend much time on social media.
 But I'm not being influenced by people who want to complain, go crazy, talk about how horrible life is.
 That's not an influence in my life.
 So you have to ask yourself a question if you are fearful. Why?
 What is feeding that fear in your life?
 So change your influence.
 Make sure that you are only allowing the influences of a good person.
 Good perspective. People that are not talking about polyanipfokes.
 Oh, everything is going to be fine in the house is on fire. That is not what I'm talking about.
 I'm talking about people who are spending time getting high levels of quality perspective.
 They're getting good information. They're getting really good solid information on what's actually happening.
 What's actually occurring.
 And they're not fearful themselves. I'm not saying that you can't have that person in your life.
 I'm just saying check your influences.
 And why far most of it needs to be solid.
 God fearing, not man fearing.
 Positive people.
 That's where I look.
 So right now, there are a lot of people Chris who are out there who have a little, I mean, very legit concern.
 They were just laid off.
 They know someone who's sick.
 It may be someone in their home or maybe a family member across the country.
 But they're really feeling the impact of whether it's the virus or their livelihood.
 What's your message to those folks?
 Absolutely sucks to be in a position where you've just been laid off.
 It absolutely sucks if you have got the virus if you're sick or if you've got somebody who does.
 I completely get it. I understand.
 But here's what you need to be doing.
 You need to be seeking and spending time seeking the one person who can change this.
 And can't exercise, I say, person, the God who can change this.
 You need a lot more time in prayer.
 You need a lot more time in his word.
 Well, other people are telling you to freak out and you're a victim and all that kind of stuff.
 There's a God who tells you if you will speak me.
 If you will spend time with me.
 I loved it as we were doing our staff meeting.
 Kill your 19 year old.
 Texted about second chronicles, 713 through 14 about how God talks about there are times I'm going to do things.
 You know, we have in a Western culture, especially in the Western Christian culture, we have a terrible lie that we sell.
 And that is that God never does anything bad.
 He doesn't allow bad. He's too good.
 Anybody who sells that lie has never actually read the Bible.
 Get five pages in, God wipes off everybody off the planet.
 Why? To get rid of the bad stuff.
 Get rid of the wicked stuff.
 But he's a God who is a father.
 He's somebody who loves us.
 He's somebody who will give us correction if we're not spending time seeking him and doing the things he wants us to do.
 So for me, I'm going to tell you, spend time seeking him.
 He can fix change, do anything he created, everything.
 You know, in Eastern culture, they have no surprise.
 They're not shot.
 God could park the Red Sea.
 Western culture would have had to do that.
 I could be positive.
 In Eastern culture, we go, well, he made the water.
 It's not very difficult for him to move it around a little bit.
 So if you're going through that difficult time, you're not hearing me say, oh, it's no big deal.
 I absolutely understand that it's a big deal and it sucks right now.
 But spending time focusing on how bad the situation is is not going to fix a single thing.
 It's not going to fix anything.
 Instead, the first place you should be going to is God, seeking him, seeking his word.
 After that, when you're spending a lot of time seeking him, and what I would do is I'd bus him up, try to find out who's hiring.
 Interestingly, William's Inc.
 Where we are, sent out, there's a, I'm sure everybody's got this, where you can text to a specific phone number and they will tell you the updates.
 The COVID-19 updates in your area.
 And William's Inc.
 I sent out all the companies that are hiring right now.
 I am at the office.
 I came into the office to do this, and I will tell you that I drove past,
 I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at the office, I'm at
 and I was going to say, "I'm not going to be here."
 Public's, I believe, was hiring.
 So there's companies out there that are looking for people right now, probably a lot of delivery stuff, probably a lot of stock and stuff.
 No, late nights doesn't matter.
 Take a hard look.
 If you're late off right now, there are people literally hiring right now.
 Chris, what do you say to those that hear that and say,
 "I know I need to do that, but I'm struggling with giving up my lifestyle.
 I've worked so hard for it.
 I want to hold on to it.
 It's so hard for me to bring myself to a place of going to stock groceries.
 There's nothing wrong with that job.
 You guys may hear what I'm saying because you're struggling so much with,
 I used to do this, and now I don't anymore.
 And I really, it's hard for me to bring myself to a place of going and getting a job like I used to do when I was 18.
 I'm going to give some gut lunches along the way.
 From the guy who busted his butt, working multiple jobs 20 some years ago to get out of debt.
 From the guy who has done everything, I own four businesses.
 I will go and clean the toilets if I need to.
 If you are worried about your lifestyle, then I have two things to say about that one.
 You have a really bad perspective.
 Life style isn't about what you have, what you own your position.
 I mean, technically, it is.
 But letting that be the focus of what you put food on the table.
 That's a really bad perspective, right?
 Because nobody cares.
 And anybody who does care, they don't really matter, right?
 Your worth does not come from man's opinion of you.
 I can't make you worthy by my opinion of you.
 I am a created being.
 You're a created being.
 So just something that we share next level of life.
 If I go down to the beach and I pick up a whole bunch of sand and I'm bringing this back and I fire,
 melt it down, fire, I blow this jar.
 And I make this jar, which by the way, has my people who ask me what in the world is that?
 It's lemon water.
 It's what it is.
 It's lemon water.
 A drink tons of the sour drink.
 It's faster.
 And the yellow rubber band is because that way, nobody steals my account.
 Important things to know, right?
 So if I blow this jar into a jar, it's mine.
 I own it.
 It's worth is what I see.
 It's worth to me as a jar.
 It holds my little water.
 It holds food if I want to put it.
 Whatever I want to put in here, it's worth to me as what I say it is.
 If it decides it's a plate, it doesn't actually make it a plate.
 So let's change this around now.
 This instead of being a jar represents me as a human being and this represents God.
 God has created every single one of us.
 He owns us.
 People really don't understand they are owned by God.
 It made you be owns you, right?
 So if you decide, he already tells you what your worth is.
 You are fearfully and wonderfully made in his image.
 And if you read it correctly, it says their image.
 God doesn't have one image. He has multiple images.
 We can only really focus on three that we can even kind of understand.
 God's make us in their image.
 And so what does that mean?
 We are fearfully wonderfully made in the image of God.
 God has shown us by the cross.
 I don't know anything else that shows me the amount of love that he has for me.
 Then the fact that he came down and had the flesh of his body to take on all of my sins
 and to bring a kingdom of forgiveness because I am stupid and I screw up all the time.
 Right?
 So for me as a created being to just off the side here.
 Look, I have another one now.
 For me as a being to look at other created beings and try and get them to tell me that I am
 handsome. I am intelligent. I am funny.
 Whatever is ridiculous.
 Why?
 Because I can't make somebody else worthy.
 Only God can.
 But we spend our rest of our life trying to get other created beings to tell us that we are worth something.
 God's your worth is not in what man thinks of you.
 Now I am not saying you don't have worth is being a dad, a mom, a spouse, any of that stuff.
 That's not what I am saying.
 What I am saying is that when you spend trying to get all of your worth from human beings and not getting it from God
 and listen to those of you who claim to be Christians, everybody comes in the next level of life going,
 "Oh, I get my worth from God and then they walk out and go, "Oh my gosh, I don't get my worth from God.
 I get it from man. I got to start getting it from God."
 You think you are getting it from God by claiming to be a Christian. That is not it.
 You have to know it and you have to stop trying to get it from human beings.
 If your fear is in a lifestyle, what are people going to do?
 I don't want to go throw boxes on a shelf.
 Oh, for the love. You kidding me?
 Does your table need food on it?
 Then go do what it takes. Go make it happen. Go bust your butt.
 Quit looking for worth from human beings.
 If anybody wants to look down on you because you are a public right now,
 sling in boxes, then they are the ones with the screwed up perspective, right? Not you.
 And for everybody who is working at a grocery store who is working at a restaurant or whatever somebody thinks is not worthy of their time,
 we applaud you.
 We thank you for all the nurses and doctors and police.
 And for everybody who is out there right now taking care of people, we applaud you.
 We thank you that your focus is more on taking care of people than what your lifestyle looks like.
 [Music]