 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show.
 Today we are going to do something a little different with everything that is going on in the
 world.
 We want to encourage you and give you some hope as well.
 So whether you are a business owner or a stay at home parent who has suddenly become your
 kids teacher, we want to encourage you during this time.
 So today we're going to share with you part of the conversation that Joel and I had on our
 Facebook live recently.
 So if you want to watch the entire discussion, please visit our page on Facebook.
 We hope you find some good news in the conversation today and we thank you for joining us.
 I'm Joel Fortner, Chris's VP Leadership Development on the Point Manger team.
 And today we're going to be talking more about leadership.
 Chris recently said in a previous Facebook live, I asked you, what is one of the best things
 leaders can be doing right now in order to survive, thrive, capitalize on opportunities.
 No one knows exactly the way this is going to play out or when it's going to end.
 But you answered that question by saying, leading each team member on your team to be successful
 is pivotal right now.
 Leading them to be successful.
 And two of the things that we teach all the time that are part of that leading each team
 member, that's will are leading high levels of quality communication and leading strong
 accountability.
 Having strong accountability, growing a culture of strong personal responsibility.
 And that's sort of underneath that top level lead people to be successful.
 And so part of that when communication and accountability that if you're some of you who follow
 us for years that you will know this, for some of you who are new to us, that we are huge
 on this personality styles as being part of the how do I lead high levels of quality communication.
 But also how do I lead my team members to have greater performance and productivity every single day?
 What does that look like?
 Well, we spend so much time teaching leaders' discs.
 So before we get too deep into this, when we say discs, some people are maybe familiar
 or any of your own, any of your own, maybe familiar, any of your own, maybe familiar, any of your
 your own, maybe familiar, any of your own, maybe familiar, any of your own, maybe familiar, any of your
 your own, maybe familiar, any of your own, maybe familiar, any of your own, maybe familiar, any of your
 your own, maybe familiar, any of your own, maybe familiar, any of your own, maybe familiar, any of your
 your own, maybe familiar, any of your own, maybe familiar, any of your own, maybe familiar, any of your own,
 any of your own, maybe familiar, any of your own, maybe familiar, any of your own, maybe familiar, any of your own,
 any of your own, maybe familiar, any of your own, maybe familiar, any of your own, maybe familiar, any of your own,
 kind of a disc 101.
 Yeah. There are a lot of great personality profiles out there. Any of your own is a fantastic one.
 The reason why we continue to stay with disc is because we're hitting it.
 So if you did like a Myers break, there's 16 different elements in trying to communicate it.
 So it's one thing to learn a personality style that you're learning about yourself.
 It's another thing for leaders to be leading these personality styles and understanding everybody's, how they act,
 react, how they give information, how they receive information.
 We use two different programs and one is disc personality style, the I.S. and C.
 And then we use values also known as motivators.
 If you take a look at any of your grammar, it's like a phenomenal combination of the two.
 But our hope is is to lead leaders into understanding personality styles enough that they can actually speak to it on a continuous basis.
 So when we say disc, die, as in C now, you are not one letter.
 You're not just one personality style.
 You have percentages of every personality style and that percentage can change.
 It can be different in your natural, your comfort, your your home life and it can be something different in your work, your stress life.
 So we have what we call the natural and the adapted, you can adjust.
 So when you're comfortable, when it's just you, your family, you're hanging out.
 Then you are how you are most natural.
 If you're in a work environment or a secular environment, which we're not seeing you've done it right now.
 But then you tend to be what we call the adapted, which is you are being the personality style that you want people to see and what you assume they see as well.
 So what do I do when I'm at home and I'm working.
 Right. Well, so that's.
 I can just.
 Yeah, that's you.
 We are singing a lot of adapted personality styles in the virtual world, right?
 Because you're still dealing or leading people are talking to people that's not your.
 It's not, you know, it's not like you're turning, you know, going into the kitchen or you know living room talking to the.
 It's Mary Beth, whatever that's your natural.
 When you're leading clients or you're talking to a folks, then we're still in that adapted.
 But the major thing when it comes down to personality styles on on this personality styles and we have.
 So much information.
 So what I'm going to summarize here just a couple of minutes.
 We have literally hours of stuff teaching on this stuff.
 D. I.S. and C. D is that dominant personality style that high driver that very decisive person.
 The take charge kind of person.
 It's the kind of person that there's no leadership.
 They will step up and take leadership.
 They're the person who can get things done really, really fast and drive it to success.
 But they're also the kind of person who doesn't like details.
 So success might be completed, but ugly.
 It might not be pretty, right? But it's done and that's the important thing.
 And we do a whole lot of teaching when we talk about what's maturity and maturity.
 So if I've talked about any of the negatives here.
 I'm talking about image.
 Image.
 It's not defined by age.
 You can be a 70 year old immature high D. I.
 S or C.
 It's not understanding yourself very well.
 So maturity is understanding how you act, react, give information or information.
 You know you.
 That's when you begin to mature in your personality style.
 And then you become even more mature when you really start to understand other folks.
 So in the negative side, the high D is a lot of times.
 Doesn't recognize that people have feelings that they have.
 You know emotions that that they should be concerned about how somebody else is receiving something or thinking about something.
 So they can drive things and hurt feelings at the same time, right?
 That eye, the high influencer, Joel, you're a 90 million eye people person.
 Love people.
 Love being the center of attention in a group of people.
 Great in influencing folks, great in getting people encouraging.
 You're always a phenomenal encourager.
 Great in encouraging people to get things done, leading them with encouragement itself.
 So great in leading people on the negative side.
 Don't like details.
 Sometimes don't realize how important details are.
 And don't put enough emphasis on the importance of certain situations.
 And sometimes can, you know, really be focused on still the people side instead of like the task side.
 The high S, the stable, anyable person, which by the way, ten percent of the population are high D's, 25 percent of the population are high eyes.
 Then we get to the highest 40 percent of the population is the highest.
 It's the most misunderstood personality style by far.
 This is the very stable, amenable person, very loyal, very loving.
 People like crazy never wants to be the out front center of attention person.
 As always, let me be in the background, what for success kind of person.
 The kind of person that will absolutely think about everybody's needs, what do people need?
 How can they serve people? How can they take care of people?
 On the negative side, in the immaturity side, there are also people that struggle to make decisions when other people are involved.
 They are so focused on taking care of other people.
 Sometimes they can hold off on making, you know, kind of procrastinate on decision making because they're worried that they're going to hurt somebody or affect something in a bad negative way.
 Because they're focused on people this way, the other three personality styles, the D, I and C actually don't understand this.
 They just think that their lazy can't make decisions and it has absolutely nothing to do with that.
 It's that they're so concerned about other people that they struggle to not fail.
 Hey, absolutely hate conflict, by the way. High C is that compliant detail personality style, the one that always joke about the high C's two figure places are Google and Excel spreadsheets because you can Google anything.
 How do you build a space rocket? Google it. It's there.
 Well, now today is the younger generation of YouTube, YouTube that thing and find out, well, where would you build it?
 And it's Excel spreadsheet because you can do it. You could build anything and it excels spreadsheet.
 Very detailed, very analytical.
 When they are focused on the details, they are not people people. They just don't really care for people in the moment.
 But you know, when they recognize the need for people, then they can really engage in that process.
 But otherwise, they really love the task and getting the task done.
 But the kind of the higher they are, the more they can do the same exact task every single day, all day long for the rest of the lives and be very content.
 On the negative side because they are so detailed, sometimes they can have a question, the day lights out of things.
 Sometimes they can, you know, they believe that people just don't have enough information.
 They have to feed it, you know, too much information, which is interesting because a high C to another high C doesn't give barely any information.
 It's like a pick up on the high C sit or something.
 Just get relevant information at all.
 You're a high C. I'm giving you nothing.
 That's the information you don't.
 So that's kind of the breakdown of the DIS and C now. Again, that is what's the five minutes maybe up to the basic.
 But for a lot of people listening, that was a lot.
 That's a lot.
 That was like, wow, holy cow. That was like maybe new for me or that was a good refresher.
 So in a lot of that Chris, there's a lot of detail that you provide there that gives a lot of understanding.
 Some people may have just thought, oh, wow, that's me. Oh, wow, that's my leader or that's my team member.
 You just peg them right there when you describe the high S or the high C.
 What's, how does the leader make the bridge then to communication?
 When they understand this kind of information, how does it then transition?
 Proving communication on a team.
 The most important thing you have to do.
 And that's why I talk about the maturity side in maturity side.
 The most important thing you have to do is first understand the person in the mirror.
 The sooner I can understand how I receive information, how I give information, how I respond, how I react information.
 The sooner I can figure those things out and understand it and learn it and grow in it, then I know how I give information.
 And that's the biggest key, right? So if I am a high D, then the last thing I want to do is spend time explaining to you, you know, 700 different ways how you can make toast.
 It's just, you know, I don't want to go through every detail. You put the bread in the thing you press button and that's, I mean, it's really not that difficult, right?
 That's that's how I high D. Thanks.
 But if I'm a high C, and I don't understand what the button is.
 What, which button are you talking about? You know, what's the thing?
 You know, if I don't say it's a toaster, that specific unit over there, then I'm looking at the counter and I am seeing, well, you've got a toaster, you've got a blender, you've got a, you know, microwave, you've got a wish thing or you talking about, right?
 And so it seems silly, of course, I'm using a silly example, but it using it and that basic form, it helps you to understand if I don't recognize how I give information.
 Then I'm only going to give information to you the way that I give information.
 But the sooner I can recognize that I leave out details that I don't really give a whole lot of information that I don't set you up for success.
 The sooner I can recognize, okay, now what do you need for you to be successful?
 That was one of the things early on in my leadership career.
 Twenty some years ago when I decided to become a personality style expert, it wasn't because it was just something I wanted to do.
 It was because it was pointed out to me that I assumed everybody knew what I knew.
 One of my sales team leaders Theresa Duke, I levered a death, you know, just amazing woman.
 I brought her in for me to say, "Hey, how can I be better than you?" and she put it out very, your communication is not going very well.
 She actually said your communication takes.
 I was like, what are you talking about? She says, you know the thing that's going on over here and I'm like, yeah, she was we don't.
 I'm like, "Trace, I just assumed that you knew." And she goes, "Trace, that's your problem."
 You always assume that we know what's inside of your head. How could we possibly have it?
 And so that thing, the big pieces that he's not been working in for the sales for years,
 but that became a really good, really, really, really, really how I communicate.
 Because I learned in that moment that I was not setting my team member up for success.
 I was setting her up for failure. So the more I learned that, then I started going, okay, what is her personality style?
 Look at every single personality style on the team. How do people need to hear things?
 How do they need to hear information? If I'm talking to one on one, if I'm talking to a high D, I'm one bullet points.
 It's going to be bullet points and I'm going to want them to just tell me what it is that you think I want you to do.
 I want you to want me to go do this, this, this, this, this, this, this, perfect. Great, go.
 If I'm telling a high, I'm going to recognize that the high eye is going to both the D and the eye are going to leave without details,
 but also the high might not put the importance on the details as well.
 So many times, if I'm talking to a high eye, instead of just going into, here's the task, go do the thing.
 I'm going to start off by saying, "Hey man, how's your weekend? What do you guys do to that?"
 How's the, how's the COVID-19 stay at home thing working for you?
 And my, I might spend, you know, 30 seconds getting personal and I say, "Hey, here's what we need to talk about.
 Explain it, give direction, ask for questions, but then ask them to repeat it back to me.
 And then find the hole they may have dropped something.
 If I'm talking to a high S, then I'm going to realize that change is conflict.
 The last thing that a high S or even a high C once is change. They don't like change.
 And so as we're talking about a time like right now, we're going through a lot of change.
 This is difficult. This is difficult for your S, this is difficult for your Cs.
 I mean, it's difficult on everybody, right?
 But I understand the personality style, like the D's are going, "Do give me something."
 You mean something to do? You know, a point of view of direction.
 You know, I've got to get out of my house. I've never spent this much time with my family.
 I've got to get out of your house.
 [laughter]
 Just give me five minutes outside of the house.
 So, you know, when you look at those personality styles, you have to think,
 "How are they responding to this?"
 And the big change of not going to work every day, working from home, all that kind of stuff.
 That's a stressor for a high S or a high C. So, I have to think about the high S.
 How am I going to communicate whatever it is? I'm going to take into consideration that changes conflict.
 So, I'm going to make sure that they're okay with the thing I'm discussing,
 but I'm going to help them to see why the thing I'm discussing is so incredibly important.
 And why it's so needed.
 But then I'm going to give them time. I'm going to give them time to process and think through it and ask questions.
 And I'm going to come back to them.
 One of the big mistakes people make is, and especially as we're doing this virtually now,
 one of the big mistakes people make is they will send a meeting request to a high S high C,
 and ask them to come into a virtual meeting room and give me ideas on stuff.
 They don't think that way.
 They need 20, 30 minutes, two hours to think on the thing that you asked.
 They need to process through it and get to where they feel like they have the right answer.
 So, set them up for success by doing so.
 I'm going to make sure that the high S is okay, make sure that they feel that this isn't going to affect anybody in a negative way.
 The high C is going to be about the details, baby. I mean, it is the details.
 They need to know every bit of information and you need to ask them questions, does this make sense?
 What questions do you have? Is anything not make sense?
 Is anything seem awkward or weird or off or ask them a ton of questions to make sure,
 and then make sure that they know that it's okay for them to ask questions back.
 If they don't, a lot of times they're not going to ask a question because they don't want to sound stupid.
 So make sure that they understand that there is no stupid question.
 So that's a ton.
 It's a ton, but there's a lot more.
 It's more.
 Right.
 There's a lot more.
 That when we can see, we'll do a Facebook live to you drop some day or we'll never stop and just keep teaching on this.
 Hey, leaders registration to the next level leadership live stream event ends today.
 April 28th at 11 59 p.m. Central Time.
 So if you've been wanting to attend this event and haven't been able to join us here in Nashville,
 don't worry.
 We're bringing this event to you right in the comfort of your office or living room.
 So get faith centered leadership training to help you live and lead courageously.
 Go to Chrissacrido.com/livestream.
 Join us April 29th at 11 59 p.m.
 So one of the keys of what you're talking about Chris is that that leaders have to be able to influence their team.
 Sometimes there's limiting beliefs.
 Sometimes there's just stuff that holds leaders back from recognizing, wow, my leadership is needed.
 What are some of the things that see maybe the top two three four things that just holds leaders back from influencing their team members?
 Because man, if they can't get past that, that stuff, they'll never be able to implement what we're talking about here.
 Yeah.
 So the answer would be different slightly different if we weren't in the situation that we're in right now.
 So with the current climate, I think one of the biggest mistakes any leader can make is because I don't see my team.
 I see my team there and they're in the office.
 I'm walking around the month talking to them.
 I'm answering questions.
 They stop me in the event space and ask for whatever it is.
 Is that because the camera goes off and you spend hours without seeing your team that they don't need to be led.
 One of the biggest mistakes that you can make right now as a leader is not leading your people during this time.
 They need extra leadership and extra focus during a time like this.
 Like we've changed some of our staff meetings and some of our devotional time.
 We've kind of changed the way we do and spoke it into those things and just talked about what we're experiencing.
 What's going on?
 Instead of just heading at the same way, this way we just stuff, this stuff you got to go and do.
 We've kind of changed up some of those processes to make sure that we're leading people up.
 So that's one of the big things that you need to recognize right now.
 One of the other big things to recognize right now.
 This ain't going away.
 This is not changing anytime soon, right?
 We're just in, I know we're all, we all cannot wait for the whatever, the cure for this, the virus to die down, whatever, right?
 Here's a deal.
 This has had a massive impact on every aspect of life, right?
 If you don't see it yet, then you may be putting your head in the sand hoping that everything just comes out.
 Okay, which means you're not leading very well anyways.
 You need to take a just a tiny look into the future and ask yourself the question, not even your business.
 What's going to happen?
 What do you see coming with business as a whole?
 What do you see coming when, you know, concerts aren't going to be played because nobody wants to go into a big stadium where, you know, they're going to be around a bunch of people potentially with the virus, right?
 A new strain of the virus kicks in or whatever.
 When people don't travel as much when they don't buy the luxury items as much.
 Whatever that is, just take a small peer into the future and ask yourself the question, what can it look like in June?
 What can it look like in July, August?
 Then ask yourself the question, what's going to the minds of your team members?
 What are they thinking about?
 For me, in the very beginning, the first thing I wanted to do was get in and talk through fear.
 That was a big, heavy focus for us to make sure that we were talking through fear.
 We understand, but we're not, you know, we are believers.
 We are not going to face this fearfully.
 We've also done so much planning and prep for a time such as this.
 I love seeing all the memes going around.
 The meme is incorrect. They're using the Dave Ramsey. Hey, 36 months of income.
 It's actually 36 months of expenses, but either way, at least it's funny that it's going around the internet.
 We've done planning and preping.
 So how do we, since we are here, we don't go forward with fear.
 We have clients that need help.
 We have clients that may be fearful.
 We have some clients that have been fearful and some clients that are like, "No, I'm good.
 I just need some help over in the city."
 So first is, I need to make sure that I'm taking care of my team in getting them to a place that they're not freaking out, that they're not fearful.
 And, right, we just don't have that team, right?
 It's not that there wasn't a little bit of concern that very first meeting that we had.
 You could see there was a little, "Oh my gosh, but it has been phenomenal to watch our team."
 I just love our team. I mean, they're, they're, "It's just great to watch them go, yep.
 This is what we're doing. You know, things are a little bit different. We're making this adjustment here.
 We're doing this adjustment. We're doing this thing here.
 People are focused. Our team is focused on serving. They're focused on taking care of other people.
 So understand where your team is.
 Understand that they may be stressed, freaked out.
 If you're freaked out, then I guarantee you you're adding to theirs because they're looking to for leadership.
 So make sure that you're not polyan of the situation.
 Oh, guys, everything's going to be perfectly fine in 2.3 days.
 Nope, if it isn't.
 It just isn't. It's not going to be the same anytime soon.
 And I'm not sure it's ever going to be the same. I don't know.
 So understand where your people, you know, what they're feeling, what they're experiencing.
 Understand the different personality styles. You might have some high degrees.
 Better like, I'm going to go look every rail in the grocery store because I'm not going to fall for this virus thing.
 Hey, they want me like, I just, I don't care. I'm getting out and doing the thing. You know, it doesn't matter.
 Okay, well, let's be smart. Let's make some good strong distillation.
 Never lick things in public. Like, ever.
 It should never be an option.
 That should be an option.
 It should quote from the really elf that comes to mind here.
 But I don't know.
 I'll take the gum.
 But just take a look at the different personality styles and see how they're responding and then speak into that.
 If you have a highest, that's, you know, our high sea that's stressed out because the change piece is really freaking them out,
 speaking to that, lead into that.
 If you have a high eye who is more of that polyanas is just like, "Well, everything is going to be fine.
 It's going to be fantastic." Well, you know, but let's take a look at what has changed and let's get aligned with this type of stuff.
 So for me, those are big things. Now again, if we weren't in COVID-19,
 I would be answering that question differently, but right now in the climate, those are things you need to be thinking about as a leader.
 So where do I start as a leader?
 Where do I start when it comes to disk and trying to implement this?
 Because I'm liking what I'm hearing here.
 I'm assuming that people are, I think that they probably are.
 But where do I start?
 You mentioned maybe it's with me, but then you've talked about, I need to get my team members on it,
 but then I need to get, I need to learn to lean in their direction and gosh,
 they need to learn to lean in others and it just sounds like a lot.
 Yeah, start.
 So for me, and I always say this on the show, whenever we talk about disk,
 if you've not had your team go through, get them through, right?
 Just go to the store, go to our site, put your team through.
 Get it.
 Yeah.
 It's not that difficult, right?
 But here's what you do.
 Then you take that disk of yours and you read it seven times over.
 I mean, I want you to read it and you're going to hate a certain percentage of it.
 You're going to, you're going to think that a percentage is going to be wrong.
 These and eyes, they look at it and they go, "Well, I agree with most of it, but that's not right."
 Then I'll always ask him, "Hey, did you show it here's spouse?"
 Yes, what they think.
 No, they said it was exactly me.
 Well, of course, because they see.
 They don't like the negative side of what they're saying.
 No personality, all likes the negative side of what they're saying.
 So you've got to one, start with you, get to a place where you understand you.
 Now, if you can step it up and even go further, we've got the whole lesson that we teach just understanding disk a lot.
 That is one of those funny, great, fantastic lessons that we teach that is great to sit down with your team.
 And I always suggest leadership do it first.
 Go through the video with leader and talk through it and discuss it because you're going to seem for very many things.
 Many things and some kind of crazy things.
 But then sit down and with the whole team and go through it and then we'll let them talk about it.
 Let them ask questions.
 I can't tell you how many times we get people that will tell us,
 "We were literally sitting there watching the video and team members start elbowing each other."
 It's like, "Oh, that's so you know he's talking about you."
 But then talk through it.
 So, when you can get the basic understanding, you're dangerous, how do people you're dangerous?
 Don't think that you know disk.
 Like a dull knife.
 That's right, this is going to take a while.
 But ask the question, "How do I start leaning in the direction?"
 How do I talk to this person?
 Just for example, we're doing this Facebook live.
 If it was only high-dees, we would already be done with this.
 We've been done a long time.
 We've been to go.
 We've been to go out for two minutes.
 We've been to go.
 You have to recognize the group makeup is not all most likely.
 I mean, unless you're working with nothing but web dev, web dev.
 Most likely, it's made up of different personality styles.
 So you don't just speak to one.
 You have to speak to them all.
 So you ask that we always say, "How do you lean in the direction of the other person?"
 So I don't need to become Joel Fortner.
 I just need to know how Joel Fortner receives information best.
 What sets him up for success?
 If I will stop thinking about me and I will start thinking about how to communicate to you the best way of possibly again.
 And then assume that I didn't do a great job by asking questions.
 What do you understand?
 What are you not understanding?
 What does that mean?
 You know, go to the different questions.
 Make sure that I've set you up for success.
 Then success will happen.
 You'll have high levels of quality commitments.
 Now, as we talk through this, there's some folks out there that are going to...
 Man that you're something about the lot of work.
 Yup.
 Yes it is.
 Here's the deal though.
 What else are you going to do?
 Right?
 You have got this time and it doesn't matter if we're in COVID-19 or not.
 But in all of you get to high levels of quality communication.
 It's going to be that heavy impact on the front side of spending time doing this and working on it.
 Then it becomes DNA inside of the business or inside of the family.
 We have plenty of folks that just do this with their own family.
 Right?
 Then it becomes DNA because you have a common language.
 The common language is disc.
 It's easy enough to understand.
 It's easy enough to discuss and talk about.
 So you have the common language that starts to be...
 Hey, where people start choosing higher levels of quality communication.
 So just this morning or Mary Beth and I, so my wife, we were having a conversation.
 And I note all the time, like I think about what we talk about.
 And we literally talk disc every day.
 We can't have a conversation.
 We can't go through a day without somebody saying, "Hi, yes.
 "Hi, I, I, I see because we understand the common language.
 Not only just ourselves but our children as well and other people in our lives.
 And so, translate this into being a leader.
 Well, I lead leaders all the time.
 I lead my leaders and I lead our leader clients all the time.
 This morning I was asked a question and I immediately asked, "What's their personality style?"
 And outcomes, high-s, high-c.
 So because I understand the attributes of a high-s and high-c,
 I can say this is who you're talking.
 This is how you now need to lead them in this conversation.
 And as soon as I went there and the owner was like, "Yes, oh my God, that makes so much sense."
 It was a media clarity.
 I know exactly what to do now, Jill.
 He was missing the understanding of the attributes of the team member
 that then translates into just as you're sharing here at Chris.
 It translates right into how do I now communicate with them?
 So let's switch gears for a few minutes and talk about accountability.
 We see every single business we work with.
 The greatest struggles are both communication and accountability.
 Or more accurately put lacks thereof.
 And it results in tons of issues, tons of problems, tons of productivity issues.
 So we have a saying that guys that it's your job to make your team successful and not the other way around.
 So let me hold that in my left hand and then let me say the word accountability with my right.
 Chris, there's a lot of leaders that don't say, "I don't see how this fits this right here.
 Can you explain that a little bit?"
 Let me first hit it from the side of those of us that come from a religious background.
 For a lot of folks who come out of, you may have been beaten over the head with the Bible.
 Told how horribly you are and how wrong you are and all that kind of stuff.
 By somebody who has just as much jacked up stuff as you do.
 And that's called accountability.
 So for a long time in such a church to come in from which denomination you came out of or really most of them did this.
 That you would find that the individual, this isn't God doing this, this is an individual human being who's telling you how wrong you are, how bad you are and calling it accountability.
 That is not accountability.
 That's not accountability.
 So we've been working on this for years to actually take that turn back and teach it from the right angle.
 It doesn't mean that there is not a point of saying, "Hey, I need to help you with this."
 It means that I'm not beating you over the head and telling you that you're a horrible person.
 It's not that I'm trying to hide my own flaws by pulling on your flaws.
 So if you can get that out of your mind because a lot of people here are kind of ability and especially entrepreneur business owners, why do business owners become business owners because
 I want accountability.
 They don't want somebody telling them what they should do and pushing on them or pressing into things.
 And so a lot of times they become a business owner and that's the thing is without quality.
 Accountability, it makes it incredibly difficult to make people successful.
 So we consider as accountability.
 Accountability is coming in and discovering all the things that one needs to be successful, whether it's software programs,
 whether it's training, it's teaching, it's coupling up with somebody and learning how to do something, asking questions, whatever it is.
 And then putting pieces in place to make sure that the thing, the project, the job, whatever gets done.
 So accountability is putting in those little pieces that say, "Is this happening? What's making it happen?"
 I'm not just talking about just measurables, but if, you know, like for us, one of the big things is carerase.
 We do a lot of carerase, a lot of KPIs, a lot of folks come to us for that kind of stuff on the website.
 And what that is is it's a way of being able to say, "Hey, here's what I want you to understand.
 Here's your job description. This tells you the things you're supposed to do in the job.
 But here's the results we're actually looking for. This is where we want you to end up.
 So if we don't see the results, we have a problem. And one of the things we always say is, is that gap in between what I do and what the result is, that's that accountability gap.
 Right? So if I'm doing, if you just gave me a job description or if you made a careray look like a job description,
 then I'm doing the very things you're asking me to do and you're telling me that that's going to make me successful, but you keep expecting this different results.
 Well, that gap is the piece where I'm not stepping in and going, why are we not getting to the result?
 How, what's missing? What's lacking? What does it take to get here? And a lot of times it's just the fact that I didn't explain to the team member what the result should look like.
 So I do the task task task task task task. They understand the task, but they're not understanding what the outcome should be.
 So they can't control the outcome because they can't see the outcome. So when you put things like that in place, when you could put accountability in place, whether it's making sure that your sales team is making all the calls that they need to, making sure that your admin team has all the tools that
 whatever that is, making sure your marketing team has the budget behind them to pull off the result that you're expecting. Whatever the stuff that's needed to get to that result, that's where you plug in.
 And a lot of times it's as simple as making sure that the process for the task, the job, the project that the processes are actually written down and understood. A lot of times that's going to be a big piece of accountability.
 With that being said, in an environment like today, when we've got, you know, what's happening, it's incredibly important when your team is virtual to make sure that you're putting accountability in place.
 And people getting things done, or are they setting it home, watching, you know, ridiculous movies on Netflix and, you know, working like an hour and a half a day.
 So what are the accountability pieces that might be more measurable? What do I expect that you get done during this time frame? This, this, this, this, this, this must get done. If it doesn't get done, then I need to jump on a zoom call and find out why what was missing, what didn't happen, what did you not have?
 You know, go through all of those processes to make sure we're getting to the right place. So that way I can set you up for success.
 A great reason for doing this is to discover if I did not do a good job setting you up for success, because it might reveal the things that the leader lacked.
 And I can fix that. If I don't know it, I don't know it. I just look at you and go, well, you're not doing your job. But if I can see that I did not do things to set you up and keep in mind some personality stalls, conflict to tell the leader that they don't have all the tools or that they don't have a question answered.
 I'll give you your jump in and make sure I'm leading that team member well. I might find out, hey, Chris, you're not communicating on this thing. Your communication stinks because we really don't understand what's going on.
 Oh, well, Cran, now that I know that I can fix that.
 So both with communication, Chris, and now with accountability, you keep bringing it back to the individual leader.
 Oh, I keep bringing that personal responsibility as the leader. I hope that you guys are hearing that come through because it's again, it's our job to make our team members successful and not the other way around.
 We don't do it in mentality.
 And sorry.
 Don't do well with victim and tallity and leadership. You're not a victim.
 Yeah, so this brings up the next question that I wanted to ask you was, what are the common things that holds leaders back from taking that level of personal responsibility?
 It's like a softball pitch right to you there. That was perfect.
 So one of the biggest, okay, gosh.
 All right. Where do I go? One of the big things, one of the big lessons that we push for all leaders is killing the leadership crazy cycle.
 So if you have been overloaded with tasks, if you're overwhelmed with the amount of work that you're doing, if you're overwhelmed trying to make things happen.
 And you're finding that you're leading your team about five minutes a week.
 There's a reason for that. Somebody has not taught you properly how to lead somebody has taught you that your importance, your worth is in the number of tasks that you as a leader get done in a day.
 You've got to just recall killing the leadership crazy cycle for a reason. You're stuck in this cycle warrior in this overwhelmed.
 You're getting a ton of tasks done, but you have a team that's not being led very well or possibly at all.
 You've got to get out of that cycle. You as a leader are not supposed to be doing most of your job as tasks.
 Your job is to lead people to success. So that's one of the big things that you just got to get to a place where you understand how you're getting stuck in that cycle.
 How to get out of that cycle. What are the things that are keeping you there? Why do you not delegate properly?
 And again, a lot of folks their biggest fear is, well Chris, I hear you and I get that. We've had this many times before in the past.
 But I don't know how to lead people. If I am afraid that if I take these tasks off, I'm not going to be needed because now I'm not doing the tasks.
 And I'm not really sure how to lead people to success. You got a lot of stuff on that, but let me just say if you just stop and look at the end of it on us, the question, what does this person or this rule need to be successful?
 And then just work on it with them. Bus do it with them, jump in there with them.
 Get the thing done and help them to get really great at that. So that's one big thing.
 Another big thing is, you know, we just, I mentioned the victim mentality and leadership.
 Man, leadership's not for us is. It's just not guys. Leadership is about helping somebody else get somewhere.
 Helping somebody else get somewhere where they might not ever get themselves. They might not even think about getting themselves to that place.
 Leadership is tough for a reason because the job is making other people successful. I can make love successful. If you give me 17 tasks, I can make myself successful in just getting a task done.
 But when I have to spend time helping you get there, that's another story.
 So one of the things that people will miss out on is their responsibility.
 Now we're talking about victim mentality and everybody hates it. Everybody hates the term. Everybody can point out seven people who are victims,
 but they can never see that they choose to be victims themselves.
 You have to take responsibility for the success of your team, for the success of your business, for the success of your role.
 If you have every reason why you can't take responsibility, then guess what, it's never going to get to great success.
 Because you'll always have an excuse, you'll always have a reason that you push back on stuff, right?
 Well, that's not my fault. That's because, oh, that's over it. Well, that's, you will COVID-19 for the love.
 What we've been teaching our clients is find opportunity in COVID-19.
 Understand that there's ways that you can turn to push this and flip this and move this in a better direction.
 So as a leader, if you're sitting back on walk, you can't do anything because of the stupid virus, then you don't understand leading, and you don't understand your responsibility as a leader.
 You've got to get your butt in the game. You've got to make sure that you're taking responsibility. I'm going to do whatever takes to make Joe forner successful today.
 And here's the great thing. If you do the things we've been teaching, Joe forner successful today, because we've been doing this, we've been walking the road for many years.
 Your team is successful because you've been walking this road with your team.
 The leaders that you lead have our successful because you've been walking this road with them for a long time.
 So when you do it, you take the effort, you take the responsibility, you go, "Well, that's my role. That's my job.
 Let me get in there, get roll up to sleeves, get my hands dirty, hopefully not with virus, but make sure you watch your hands."
 Things don't lick things in public.
 Things don't lick things in public, get in there and make things happen. It was once a bullet.
 So let me close on this. I'll make it just, I just want to mention the live stream event that we have come up as we've been talking for probably 45 minutes or so now.
 And this has been just super helpful information. I know this is helping people who are watching this or are going to watch this on the replay.
 But ladies and gentlemen, in the leaders, if you want more of this kind of information and training,
 we do have a way to do that. It's our live stream event. So if you follow us, we do a manual leadership event every year.
 That's about equipping leaders to be to confidently lead at all times.
 And I love what you just pointed out Chris, that if you do these kinds of things, these leadership activities and you make decisions this way and your mindset is one of personal responsibility,
 it helps you weather crisis and helps you weather uncertainty.
 So we have our live stream, this event, the next level leadership event, is all live stream now, April 29th, through May 1st.
 It's a three day live stream event. We're going to be teaching leadership training in lessons starting with you.
 How do you lead yourself better to go deeper on personality styles, deeper on accountability and getting to even a ton of plans and processes for you to implement these things that really bring them to life within your business and within your team?
 So if you want more of this, the opportunity, the where the place to go is to crystalqherto.com/livestream, or the annual, I think it's our fifth year doing this next level leadership live event,
 where we're going to be doing three days worth of leadership training to help you weather with this uncertainty.
 Help you if you're doing great, it's going to help you do even better as a leader.
 And if you're out there think, well, leadership is this soft stuff, hopefully you're hearing it's not here.
 Because leadership got him along.
 Leadership equates to profit and net profit.
 And our clients can demonstrate that all day long because it's about the quality of decision making that you make as a leader, which what's the critical there is what you believe as a leader.
 Is it, do you believe it's your job to make your team successful, not the other way around?
 And if you take that attitude into it, you will see amazing fruit come from it in your team that also hits and will show up in the P&L as well.
 The place to go is crystalcardo.com/livestream. So Chris, thank you so much, brother.
 And thanks for taking the time and folks, I hope this has been helpful.
 My pleasure, I love it. Thanks guys.
 Alright, we'll see you soon.
 [Music]