 [music]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do not who you are.
 [music]
 Welcome to the show folks.
 We are glad that you are joining us today.
 Today we have a special guest with us, Charlotte Miller and also for those of you who are listening
 to us, we are also putting this live on CLo.tv.
 So if you want to watch this interview, you can do that as well.
 And you can pick that up again at CLO.tv.
 But we are glad that you are joining us.
 Today we are talking about a lot of fun stuff.
 And Charlotte has been through a whole lot of fun experiences with us going all the way back
 to our first coaching calls.
 We are going to get into that.
 But you have been through coaching.
 You have been in your next level of mastermind, going through the events.
 I mean, next level of leadership live events.
 You are now in restore with us and you just did next level of life.
 And so welcome Charlotte.
 Welcome to the show.
 Thank you very much.
 It's an honor to be here.
 Thank you for what has happened.
 We are glad to have you with us.
 As we talked about this today, how about you just before we get into all of this, tell us a little bit about yourself
 and your business and what you do and all that kind of fun stuff.
 Okay, I am actually a mom and a wife.
 We have eight kids.
 Our oldest is a girl.
 We have seven boys.
 So life has been very interesting at our house.
 We will have as of next week.
 Nine grandchildren.
 And there again, it's three little girls and the restaurant boys.
 So I know all about guys.
 You just got a lot of boys in the family.
 That's right.
 So, and then we have a business.
 We've had this business for going on.
 I think it's 32 years now.
 It's a bakery and a boat food store.
 It has been got has been very gracious to us.
 It started out as a partnership.
 And it is now our own.
 We pulled out of the partnership and actually bought the business.
 And we have been very busy.
 And the last couple of months, which were very, very grateful for.
 Yeah, very cool.
 Well, we're so glad that you're talking to us today about having come through next level
 life.
 And that is such a big event to experience.
 And one of the things that we have discovered is.
 People love to hear about how.
 What the experience is like, you've known about next level of life for a long time.
 And for those who don't know if you don't know what next level of life is.
 That's our two day personal one on one intense event on helping people to, you know,
 guiding them through a personal process of getting on stuck in life, improving
 relationships and discovering the things that are holding you back.
 And so for everybody walking the planet, I mean, everybody needs to go through next
 of life.
 But it's helping people to discover all those things that are buried in your root system,
 all those things that are creating decision making processes and ways that you wouldn't even
 realize.
 You probably don't even recognize that you're experiencing.
 So before we get into all the great information, what was it like, what you've known about next
 level of life for years now, what were your thoughts before you ever made the decision to come
 and do it?
 Well, it was really scary, number one.
 I wasn't sure what to expect.
 I honestly, I didn't know if it was necessary.
 I'd heard about it a lot through, of course, Daniel talked a lot about it.
 And was really excited about it and really thought that we should do this.
 But before, yeah, I just wasn't sure what to expect.
 And I will say that before we did next level of life last year, I hadn't even
 really on my antenna to even do it.
 But after next level of life last year, it really felt like there were pieces coming together
 that I was finally understanding and I really wasn't sure how to put it all together.
 So I kind of felt like we needed to do this.
 The next level of leadership live event.
 Yes.
 This is when you started to see a little bit more things started to make more sense.
 Yes.
 Everybody comes in with the same exact fear.
 And depending upon the personality style, high D's, although we say, well, I'm not afraid of it.
 You know, well, last people as they walk in the door, you know, you're coming in for next level of life.
 What do you afraid of?
 And the reason why we asked that question is because hundreds of events later, we've done over 300 next level of lives.
 We know that people are experiencing the same exact thing.
 Now the high D will say, I'm not afraid of anything.
 I say, well, what are your concerns?
 Well, I'm concerned.
 I don't know what we're going to discover.
 So there's a little bit of, if everybody has this, I don't know what's going to happen.
 Thought in their mind.
 I don't know what we're going to discover.
 As if we're going to discover something that's just going to shock the daylights out of you, and you didn't know this about yourself.
 And it's just now you're just full of shame and all that kind of stuff.
 Right.
 I mean, that's the coming in.
 There's this, well, I don't know what we're going to discover kind of fear, right?
 Is that what you experienced?
 Yes.
 That's exactly how it was what I was feeling.
 Exactly what I was feeling.
 And of course.
 I actually.
 The week before I was supposed to come, I told my husband, my high D kind of kicked in.
 And I thought, well, I don't need all this.
 I can figure this out on my own.
 There's not that much wrong with me.
 Let's just not do it.
 And in it's was like, nope, we paid for it.
 We're going.
 So it was too late back out.
 I love it.
 I love it.
 Because that's what you do.
 Whenever, and again, we're going to talk about, we've got an upcoming episode called The Stress Effects on How The Different Personality Stuff.
 We're going to talk about the things that we've been doing.
 We've been doing this for a long time.
 We've been doing this for a long time.
 We've been doing this for a long time.
 We've been doing this for a long time.
 We've been doing this for a long time.
 We've been doing this for a long time.
 We've been doing this for a long time.
 We've been doing this for a long time.
 We've been doing this for a long time.
 We've been doing this for a long time.
 We've been doing this for a long time.
 We've been doing this for a long time.
 We've been doing this for a long time.
 We've been doing this for a long time.
 We've been doing this for a long time.
 We've been doing this for a long time.
 We've been doing this for a long time.
 What we hear from most people is they just say, listen, you've got to go do it.
 You've got to go do it.
 I can't explain it to you.
 You've got to go do it.
 But it's interesting as you get closer to it or as you even process through.
 We have a lot of folks that are like, "No, I can do all this stuff on my own."
 Having gone through, what do you think now about having had those thoughts before you came in?
 Well, it was very helpful for me for Joel to be able to.
 I knew that I was feeling all of these things and I knew that there were issues going on.
 But to connect all of it together, I would have never connected it to my root system.
 I just wouldn't have connected it.
 And then I guess the difference between the surface level responses being a symptom of what is going on underneath was another one.
 That was really, I don't know that I could have ever done that on my own.
 It was just helpful to have to all walk that through that with us.
 That has been the basis of what we do in next level of life being the root system.
 It's just so crazy powerful.
 It's the kind of stuff that everybody needs to understand this stuff.
 It's the kind of stuff that we've had clients like, you need to be, you need to sell this to colleges.
 And I was like, "Well, if they could understand it and teach it, then it would be great."
 But a lot of folks don't understand the biblical aspect of it.
 And we have a lot of folks that come through who are not saved and have their lives absolutely changed.
 There's so much to understand about how families and how you're raised in the experiences that you've had and the big impacts in your life.
 How much that creates this decision-making process.
 Good or bad, which ends up being what we call the surface level of responses, how you respond.
 So I love it that you shared that the week before you're like, "No, I got this.
 I could figure this out. I could do this up at the surface level of response.
 And here's the funny thing.
 When you dig down underneath that and you find out what the problem is, the problem isn't that you're worried about learning.
 The problem isn't that you're worried about growing.
 The problem is you're afraid that you're going to find out bad things, correct?
 Exactly.
 Yeah, so when you discover, hey, getting to the thing, getting down into the roots and discovering what's going on and what's driving that decision making,
 do you feel like that free-juved to make better decisions going forward?
 Absolutely.
 It's changed how I make decisions very much.
 Do you carry the same, and I'm not saying you're carrying a fear in life, but just that struggle of looking internally and discovering some of this stuff,
 do you carry the same level of concern or fear?
 No, I would say that fear is not fear of failure.
 Of course, I was very much a people-pleaser anyway.
 Knowing the fear I think is more, more most of the time anyway.
 The fear is gone because I know that I don't have to prove to other people that I'm worthy to be loved.
 I have that from God.
 I don't have to prove that to other people.
 Absolutely. Now, before the next level of life, did you think there was more?
 Did you think there was more person or growth?
 Maybe there was a better way to look at yourself.
 So describe to me in a few words what was life like a few years ago?
 Well, I would say definitely in three words.
 A frantic, depressed, and manipulative.
 That's just unbeen honest.
 Yes, very much so.
 Obviously, as I can see, you share those words that there's a pain in sharing that.
 What does that describe?
 Why were things frantic?
 Why were things?
 Again, don't share anything you don't want to share.
 We're very private with folks next level of life.
 But what can you share is to why that's how life was?
 Part of it, a lot of it was again.
 That I was so focused on pleasing people.
 There were things that had happened in my past that I never, that I didn't work through.
 That my husband and I had been working through.
 And I was constantly trying to gain approval from other people.
 And how I worked at my job, how I looked and searched, how I responded to my kids.
 And especially when you were around other people.
 And a lot of times, it was, I felt very out of control.
 I wanted to be in control.
 And I felt very out of control.
 I got, I got it.
 I did what I needed to feel like I was in control.
 Even though I wasn't really, I wasn't in control, but at least it felt like I was.
 Most of the time.
 And, but it was a lot of hard work.
 And in all of that, there was still no happiness.
 And there was depression.
 A lot of depression actually.
 Yeah, it was just all tied into that pleasing people thing.
 And again, and while we take this hour to kind of explain this through the next level of life,
 the basis of the people pleasing is the belief that your work is in what man thinks of you.
 What are not man approves of you or thinks that you're smart or talented or a great business on
 our great mom or great woman, whatever that is.
 And every single one of us, every one of us experiences that.
 To some degree.
 Some folks, it's in, if I can, if I can make you happy.
 If I can, you know, do the things that bring you joy that I'm worth something.
 For other folks, it's the, if I can, if I can accomplish things, you know, for so many folks that are listening to us.
 Many of them are business leaders.
 A good portion of those are business owners.
 You know, if I can just accomplish the right stuff, I can just make a great team or a great business.
 Then I'll be worth something.
 And what we teach is that's not where you're worth this.
 You're worth isn't in what created beings think of you.
 You're worth isn't what the king of the universe thinks of you.
 So what about your relationships?
 Was there anything missing?
 What were some struggles and things that you dealt with?
 And why did you want to come through the next level of life when you did?
 Okay, start with why I wanted to come to the next level of life when I did was, I think partly again, because of what I had heard in the live,
 there were pieces coming together.
 And I realized I was, you know, in my mid 50s, I did not want to be going to end my life in this way.
 I've been a believer for probably, well, let's see, it would be about 20 years now.
 And so I felt very secure in my position with God.
 I knew I was a believer.
 I knew I was, you know, if I died, I would go to heaven.
 But at the same time, there were just so many pieces that I felt like I was not being, I wasn't living to the potential that God had for me.
 And I just didn't know how to put that all together.
 And as far as relation, so it was because of that and why honestly, because it was right after next level of life that we signed up.
 For the next level of life, I think if I would have waited six months or eight months after to sign up, I probably wouldn't have done it.
 But it was so fresh on my heart.
 And I can't tell you it was, I was some move at next level of life.
 Some of the things that I had heard that were just like, wow.
 And it just spoke really directly to my heart.
 And I knew that I needed to pursue this.
 So that was why it was, I signed up when I did, because I knew if I didn't, I was going to end.
 Be the, come to the end of my life and realize, I did not do the best that I could have.
 And as far as relationships, I am a very outgoing person.
 I don't find it hard to make friends, but I do find it very difficult to make deep friendships.
 It's pretty, you know, I'm pretty again going back to the whole people pleasing thing.
 I found it very hard to be vulnerable because I was afraid of being hurt.
 Isn't that interesting?
 You do the things.
 So many people please are listening right now.
 And what is your eye, by the way, what how high is your eye on the desk?
 I'm asking.
 Yeah, yeah, you're so, but your D is 60 70.
 No, it's actually about an 85 85, I think it is 85.
 Okay.
 Something like that, 80 something.
 You're so here's the, the interesting thing about next level life.
 And we teach personality styles.
 We teach all this stuff, right?
 I eyes, you're an anomaly.
 High eyes tend to not come to next level life.
 And the reason why so these will come.
 S is will come, sees will come.
 But a lot of high eyes will not come.
 A lot of the people heavy your people please.
 You know, that focus is on pleasing people will not come because of the very fears that you've, you're talking about right now, right?
 So if we look at people pleasing, what's the goal?
 I need to make you happy.
 I need to make you please you in some way, shape, or form so that I can feel work.
 And you wouldn't think.
 And people please is like you said, you don't have any problem creating relationships.
 You have any problem talking to people.
 But the depth of relationship is a major fear.
 Right.
 Why?
 Because you're concerned and I did not do your next level life.
 So I don't know the details.
 I have it, you know, that's like again, we haven't walked through those details.
 So I'm speaking generally for people, please, which a lot of people listening right now are people, please,
 and I'm talking about the fear.
 You have this fear that if I get too close to you, you might find out that I'm a fraud.
 You might find out that I'm not real.
 You might find out that you might find out that you might find out that negative sides of me.
 And then what do I do?
 You know, how do I respond?
 If you really truly discover the authentic me because as a people, please, and by the way, I was a people, please, for the first half of my life.
 That all of my work came from whether or not I could make somebody happy or, you know,
 solve something for them or teach them something or or or fill in the blank.
 If somebody really gets close to me and sees that I'm not who I'm trying to convince them that I am,
 then they can be extremely disappointed in me.
 And that's the last thing.
 Now for me, I'm also, I'm a very high-ess.
 That's the last thing that I could have, you know, back in those days is that you're disappointed in me.
 Oh my gosh.
 Then then what do I do?
 And so it's funny how we look at this and on the surface, it's like, well, Charlotte, my gosh.
 She must have tons of deep relationships because she's such a people person.
 And yet what we discover is actually does not true.
 The fear is having the deep relationship because what if they find out about the authentic name, right?
 Right, right, absolutely.
 What did you discover about your authentic self here?
 It was, it was really comforting to me.
 I think it was, that's not sure if comforting is the right word.
 It was really revealing to me that my authentic self really was worth loving, I guess, is what I'm trying to, that, that, that,
 one of the things that really, because of some of my past that had happened in the past.
 And we were able to talk about that at next level of life.
 Joel helped us go through that and to realize, especially,
 and I'm talking about our marriage relationship here because that is one of the deepest friendship levels that you can have here.
 My husband and I weren't connecting.
 And it was because I was able to, I didn't think I was worthy of his love.
 And so it was really, I've tended to push him away because number one, I wasn't afraid if I got, if he saw what I was really feeling again, that he wouldn't, he would just say, I'm done.
 So, it was, that was really hard for me to, it was painful for me to see how much I had pushed him away, even though he felt, you know, I was worth it to be loved.
 And, and I don't know if I, I can really put it into words, but it was such a healing time in our relationship for me to see that, that my authentic self is who got made me to be,
 and that I'm loved because I'm a child of the king because I'm made in God's image.
 And my husband loves me.
 It doesn't matter, you know, of the past. He still loves me.
 He doesn't just love you. He's crazy about you.
 Right?
 Yes.
 Every time I see you guys together, I mean, he's just such, you know, he's an amazing man. He's got a great heart.
 He's very loving. And he's always, he always positions himself in support of you. He always is, you know, very loving towards you.
 But the very thing that you just, it doesn't matter how much he loves you.
 Right?
 It doesn't matter because there's these lines that you tell yourself.
 Absolutely.
 I'm not worthy.
 I'm not worthy of somebody else's love.
 I'm not worthy of being loved. I'm not worthy of God's love.
 And this, these lines that get stuck in your brain and we walk through how to, you know,
 we walk through the truths and how to battle that and all that kind of fun stuff.
 If I say fun stuff, as if it's actually fun.
 It's actually difficult and painful.
 Yes, absolutely.
 But it's so much better than living your life, believing that you're not loved.
 Exactly.
 One of the reasons we put, you know, we created my authentic self, which is a part of the process that we do next to the life,
 is because it's difficult to explain to somebody until they see themselves pay.
 I think Charlotte Miller is amazing.
 I think the world of Charlotte.
 I love seeing you every time you're at an event.
 You know, I love the coaching calls that we've had.
 I love the interaction. I love having you here.
 Oh, my gosh. I love your German chocolate cake because it is insane.
 We're guy who is never like German chocolate cake ever.
 Wow, I ate a lot of that.
 I think you're amazing.
 But it doesn't matter how many times I tell you that you're amazing, right?
 I personally like you are 1700 other people line up to tell Charlotte Miller that she's incredible.
 Because it always comes back to the lie that you tell yourself.
 As long as you keep believing the lie and keep telling yourself the lie that you're not good enough,
 then that tends to win out over anybody's love, even the man, you know, the most important human relationship that you're supposed to have, right?
 So now on the other side of next-level life, how do you experience people's love for you?
 You know, it's really funny because it doesn't matter so much anymore.
 You know, I appreciate when people tell me that, you know, they love me or they like me or whatever.
 But it's like, well, that's good, but it's not where I find my worth anymore.
 It doesn't mean what it did at one time.
 Although I find it much easier to just accept it and you know, say like me fine if they don't like me.
 It's okay too.
 Yeah, that's exactly it.
 The key is to understand that getting people to love you or getting people to like you is never going to fulfill you.
 It's never going to make you worthy.
 It's never going to create worth.
 I'm a created being.
 I can't make you worthy.
 You're worth to me as a created being can only be what I get from you.
 And what we teach the next level of life is is that when you're beyond that,
 you're not going to be a created being.
 So I don't see your worth is what I can get from you.
 Although the German chocolate cake is pretty amazing.
 I don't see that as that's not your worth to me because I see something different.
 I see your worth to the king of the universe.
 I see your worth to our Lord and Savior who shows.
 To take on a way to go on for Charlotte Miller.
 Oh my gosh, what an a world can any created being ever do that's greater than that.
 So your worth to me that you know for those of us here at the point main group is we see you for what well in our in our humility.
 We see what God sees and that's that is absolutely amazing.
 It's so much more powerful than hey I think you do great you know chocolate cake or I think you're great at how you talk to people.
 Those are fantastic pieces and it should represent our Savior.
 But at the end of the day it's not the thing that that is the most important thing so even just looking at the past couple of years of life.
 What frustrations were you dealing with from day to day like maybe some disappointment in career stress or any emotional struggles.
 Well number one well there was a lot of anger I think.
 And also a lot of judge I was very judgemental and I think you know we talked about the manipulative part of it.
 Those were all things that I was really struggling with.
 There were there were things that had happened both in church life there were things in our marriage of course that really kind of.
 Exacivated it.
 You know the church that we were with was really going through some deep struggles the business was coming out of a very very stressful almost lost the business.
 And so I was we were still trying to get out of that dig ourselves out of that and along with that.
 My dream had well I shouldn't say my dream but my I really want it to be at this time of my life I wanted to be a stay at home mom I wanted to be at home.
 Doing what every mom does with homeschooling like kids and just being a mom and I was pulled into the business because my husband had another daytime job and so I was feeling very resentful about that I was feeling resentful.
 That I had to be there so those were all kind of things that were just piling in on me and of course the depression was kind of a result of all of that.
 And of the anger as well that's yeah it wasn't a pretty picture.
 Did you feel out of control.
 I felt very out of control absolutely.
 So you've walked through the next level of life you've learned a ton in the process you've learned how to understand a lot of those deposits understand the surface level of responses.
 What changed about you since ever since you've done the next level of life which changed about you since what's the greatest change you see in yourself.
 And what do you see as a like a change in your daily life.
 I would say that probably the biggest thing that I have learned.
 Is number one of course that my worth doesn't depend on on people number one.
 The second thing that I've learned that has been really extremely transformational both in.
 In my personal life and in the business that.
 My bad choices from the past don't define who I am today.
 That was really that was really a game changer for me.
 I knew that but I didn't know that.
 It was like it took Joel connecting some of those pieces for me to see that I really in my heart.
 I believe that my I did not believe that my bad choices didn't define who I was.
 I would say that now I'm living in a lot more confidence.
 I know that I can leave my team well because I'm not I know my is not found in making my employees happy.
 I'm not responsible for their happiness although you know I can lead from a place of wanting the best for each of them because I know that.
 I know that I'm not responsible for each of them.
 I know that I'm not responsible for each of them.
 I know that I'm not responsible for each of them.
 I know that I'm not responsible for each of them.
 I know that I'm not responsible for each of them.
 I know that I'm not responsible for each of them.
 I know that I'm not responsible for each of them.
 I know that I'm not responsible for each of them.
 I know that I'm not responsible for each of them.
 I know that I'm not responsible for each of them.
 I know that I'm not responsible for each of them.
 I know that I'm not responsible for each of them.
 I know that I'm not responsible for each of them.
 I know that I'm responsible for each of them.
 I know that I'm responsible for each of them.
 I know that I'm responsible for each of them.
 I know that I'm responsible for each of them.
 I know that I'm responsible for each of them.
 I know that I'm responsible for each of them.
 That this got to change in our family tree.
 This is something that I had the opportunity.
 I'm aware of it now.
 I need to change this in my family tree.
 Isn't that amazing?
 It's funny how God lays out life for so many people.
 It's a struggled relationship that you have with a dad.
 And then you crank out seven boys.
 Right?
 Yes.
 Yes.
 It's interesting how something that we experience as a negative sometimes.
 And you know, we're not anybody listening can actually get into even a half a dozen details of
 Strangrelationships with parents.
 I mean, it's not that difficult.
 We are created beings.
 We're human beings.
 We make mistakes.
 We screw up.
 I have made.
 I've said it so many times on the show.
 I have made so many mistakes.
 I have sinned so much.
 I have in some way shape or form.
 Broken all the ten commandments.
 Somehow, some way.
 I have not looked my neighbor.
 I've not looked God.
 I've done stupid.
 I have done stupid.
 And there is this father of ours that continues to go.
 That's right.
 I'm going to keep pulling you this direction.
 And for me, I grew up with a ton of guilt.
 Even if it wasn't mine.
 Beautiful.
 It wasn't.
 You know, I didn't have something to do with whatever was happening.
 Somehow a lot of guilt ended up coming my way.
 Right?
 And that is not victim mentality.
 I have responsibility for the things that I've done.
 That I deserve the guilt, right?
 The interesting thing is that we end up looking at when we look at our parents, our parents,
 are technically supposed to be the earthly representation of God.
 And when we have this struggle or strain or just terrible, just depending upon who the person is,
 relationship with a parent with both parents, then we tend to look at God the same way.
 If I don't feel loved by my father, if I don't feel loved by my mother, if I don't feel loved by them,
 or if we have that strange relationship, I really have a hard time believing that the king is
 the universe can love me.
 Yes.
 I feel like I'm that bad of a person to them.
 Then I really believe, you know, we kind of posit what we experience with our parents on the God.
 Yeah.
 And you know, it's that he surely can't love me.
 I mean, how could he?
 Human beings who I belong to don't love me, like, you know, whatever the situation is, right?
 Absolutely.
 Amazingly, and this is, you know, for me, my mother loves me like crazy.
 I know I have no doubt on that.
 But with the guilt stuff that I've experienced in my life, what I always struggled with when it came to God was,
 how can you?
 How when will you?
 One of my going to be good enough that you could possibly love me.
 When will that be?
 And it's been interesting how much God has shown me people in his word who have done way worse than I've done.
 They've shown me how much he's loved the fire out of them and how much he has continued to draw them closer to him and how he's worked for
 given this through with them and continue to draw them closer to him.
 So I think it's powerful that, you know, when you look back and you see some of the things that you've experienced,
 whether it's with a parent, multiple parents, doesn't matter.
 I'm speaking to everybody.
 I'm not talking about just you and I, I'm speaking to everybody.
 How when you recognize what happened?
 And then really one of the powerful things that we do is help you to see what they went through.
 But that parent experienced.
 It does not in any way justify bad decisions.
 It doesn't in any way justify bad responses.
 That's not the goal.
 The goal is to help you see that in a lot of situations.
 And again, I'm not speaking about your specific situation because I don't know your specific situation.
 But it doesn't mean that a lot of times what we help somebody to see is that person couldn't love you.
 The way you wanted to, the way you desired, the way you should be because of the jump that they went through.
 And now you've got this phenomenal opportunity with 72 children and grandchildren.
 You have a lot there just joking on the 72 part.
 But with eight kids and I was at eight kids and 19.
 How many grandchildren?
 No, not in the 70.
 No, it was up to the 17th.
 As of the 70.
 Yes.
 You have an opportunity to change their root system.
 Yes.
 You have an opportunity to take responsibility for you.
 One of the things we teach people is take responsibility.
 Go sit down with your children, explain bad decisions.
 You don't have to go into details, but explain, hey, I treated you this way.
 I didn't love you well here. I've paired to two harshly over it.
 Whatever the thing is, help them to understand and to see, hey, I'm moving on.
 I'm changing me.
 I'm going to adjust me on this process because here's the funny thing.
 If you're mad, sit down with you today. If you was able to sit down with you and go Charlotte, I screwed up.
 I messed up. I was not the father you needed. I did a bad job.
 I did this wrong this wrong this wrong this wrong this wrong this wrong.
 I hope that you can forgive me, but what I want you to hear is how sorry I am for being a, you know, being this type of parent whatever it is.
 I'm working on getting right with God and my relationship and all this stuff and understanding a bunch of stuff.
 How much easier would it be for you to forgive?
 How much easier would it be?
 I don't want to be specific situation.
 Yes, it is much easier. I will say that, Dad and I, you have to understand my dad's also very, very much.
 I suspect he's probably a high-eye as well. He doesn't do well with opening up his heart.
 But we have in the past probably five, six, eight years.
 Things have really healed up between us and he would admit he would tell you, right?
 I'm talking to you, that he realizes the mistakes that he made affected his kids and he's very, we have a great relationship, great relationship now.
 No problem.
 It isn't that powerful for you to be able to change you and make adjustments in your life?
 Yes, absolutely.
 That's so good. That is so powerful.
 All right, now, he is getting tender with you.
 This is a one-on-one event.
 We do have a marriage event that we do from time to time of both people have gone through, but the individual next level of life.
 You can have your husband or wife attend with you. You cannot. It's completely up to you.
 You just attended with you. What impact has it had on him in the marriage?
 Or just on him period?
 Well, I think him, of course, he's not here, so I'm speaking for him.
 He would say, I don't know that he learned a lot of things that he didn't already know,
 but he was able to make the connection from the pieces together right along the side of me.
 And recognize even in his own life, how he is responding to me is a result of his root system that he grew up with.
 And being, and it was very helpful for both of us to be going through it at the same time,
 recognizing that we both come from completely different resistance and how that affects how we relate to each other.
 The interesting thing was, like I said, I don't know that he learned anything so much new about me.
 As such, he knew more than I thought he did. He had picked up a whole lot more than I thought he did.
 So it was, it's just really comforting, like I said before, to know that in spite of my past and spite of things that happened.
 He was able to say, you know, I love you regardless. And he's sticking with me regardless.
 And that was really, really such a blessing.
 I was really brought at much more of learned how to be able to communicate a lot better with him.
 And he with me as well, he knows that he needs to stand up and lead.
 He knows that's what I want.
 And that's been, he's been a person. He's very quiet most times.
 And it's not a, he's not a high D for a high I. So he's not maybe one is going to step up to the plate unless he's somewhat forced to or seize the need to.
 And I've been really thankful that he's really done that for me. There's been times since next level of life that he has asked me just to back off just to, you know, just chill, just take a break.
 Don't be so hard on yourself. And that's been really, really encouraging.
 Really encouraging.
 It's funny. You made a, you used a word.
 There are phrase there that he's stuck with you.
 Isn't it interesting how, and I'm going to make an assumption here from that comment.
 Did you assume that going through next level of life that he might learn some things or see some things about you and not want to stick around?
 Yeah, I feel like I, I, I, I probably already knew it. I just didn't know if because of being just completely open, you know, about some of the struggles that I was having even with him.
 I didn't doubt for a minute because, you know, when we got married, it was for better for worse till death to as part.
 That's, that's what, you know, we, that's what I believe.
 And so the, the divorce was not an option ever, unless, you know, there would have been extinuating circumstances, but divorce was not an option.
 But the thing that was, our marriage had been just in survival mode, I guess you could say.
 And, and, you know, and I know that that God wants way more from your, just in just survival mode. He wants joy and happiness and fulfillment.
 And, you know, for to be a picture of Christ in the church. And how can you be that when you're barely surviving? You want more for your marriage than that and up in really, it's, it's still not where I would love for it to be.
 But it's definitely a trend that is tracking, you know, we're going, we're going.
 You're moving in that direction. Absolutely. Absolutely. All right, describe to me in three words your life today.
 I would say number one discipline. Thanks to Rhonda Good who is holding me accountable on a weekly basis.
 Purposeful and accepted. I feel, yes, and that I feel that from God.
 And I don't mean that from accepted by people, but knowing confident that I am accepted by God.
 And that's been just, yeah, probably the most fulfilling of all of all of this three.
 It really does. So you just said purposeful.
 How much more purpose do you have when you recognize and start living in the acceptance of God?
 Does that make sense when I'm asking how much more purpose do you experience at that point?
 It is amazing actually and it relate, you know, how it's how I relate to my team now.
 And actually how I run the business. I feel like I have a purpose in running the business.
 It's not just to make the money or to, you know, it's, it's to, I'm there for my team.
 My team is there to grow as well.
 And it's been, it's been amazing what that has done for my attitude as far as being willing to be, you know, working.
 That's, that's, that's changed my mind a lot of that.
 And purposeful as in being intentional about spending the time with my husband, being intentional with spending the time that I need to be spending both in, thanks to Heather,
 to eating well, to cooking well.
 You know, it's not if I want my life to change, I have to be intentional about making that change happen.
 It's not going to happen on its own.
 I have to be intentional and purposeful in making that happen.
 Yeah.
 We just launched a story a couple of weeks ago.
 So would you have was it easier to jump into something like a restore post next level life, pre-next level life, or it mattered either way?
 And by the way, for us, you don't know, restore is is a whole process of helping people to adjust their, the health side, the physical, the mental, you know, getting you in a place of being able to get a bunch of the, the inflammatory junk out and stuff and making better health.
 Decisions because so many people, we see it all the time.
 Me included.
 I've been working on my health for 20 years and having discovered light in those 20 years that I have a ton of lead in my body.
 That's been fun trying to get that out.
 But how would what would there have been a different decision making process before or after an ex-level life on jumping into a restore?
 Well, we just say I would have probably jumped into it, but I probably wouldn't have gone past the first week.
 And I really appreciate it.
 Well, I think it's really seeing the perspective that God cares about me, that God cares about every detail of my life, including how I'm feeling physically.
 And like Heather told me, I think it was the first week or so that there was, it may have been on Facebook, I'm not sure.
 You know what God, if my body is the temple of God, what I put into it and you know, I often thought, well, that's, you know, what I read, what I, you know, look at, whatever, but it goes beyond.
 It's also what I put into my body. And so yeah, I think being after next level of life now, understanding what I understand, this has been extremely important for me to do this.
 And the interesting thing is that Joel had told me when I was there for next level of life, he said, you really need to talk to Heather.
 And I didn't do anything about it. Didn't, yeah, just left it and then Holly called me. So it was all in God's timing.
 Oh, yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. All right. So what else let's talk a little bit more about what life looks like. What is the most transformational thing that you've learned from investing yourself in your marriage?
 I would say, one of the, of course, I knew this, but it was learning to see it in action is how that good relations really do take time and effort.
 And how I respond to ENAs again, you know, if I'm having a tough day recognizing that these are surface level responses and it's because of some lie that I'm believing and I have to go back.
 And again, to look at the root system, see what lie I'm believing. It has really equipped me to be able to make better choices.
 I would say probably the most transformational thing that I have.
 It would be in line with with the root system and recognizing the lies. It's just been, it has really extremely transformational.
 That's awesome. That's awesome. All right, something I ask everybody has on interviewing them. If you could go back to a young Charlotte.
 What would you tell her?
 Wow, don't let your choices find who you are and you're loved chosen for given.
 Be who got created you to be. And I wish I would have understood all of that. You know, back when I was 20 years old.
 All right, how much more is that the message that you're going to share with your kids or grandkids as you go forward.
 We have had two weeks, one of our granddaughters with us and oh my gosh.
 I hate to let her go or take her back home. But my gosh, I mean, it's just so great to be able to speak messages into all of our grand, you know, we speak them in that we, you know, five total daughters combined.
 It's nine grandchildren as well.
 Yeah, nine total grandchildren. Eight grandchildren. And it's amazing the messages that, you know, as this is what we do for living.
 We've been through this. We've done this stuff. We've made stupid mistakes in the past. We've screwed things up.
 And for some reason, there is this God who still loves us like crazy and keeps pulling us closer.
 And so the the messages when you're able to get rid of the lights when you're able to get and they don't stop. You just learn how to battle. You learn how to overcome them with the truths.
 Yeah.
 And you're able to do it so much faster as you, you know, this is going to take a while. This is a long practice, right? We tell people, leaving next level of life, you're not fixed.
 You now practice every single thing that you've learned. And it's a long process. But it's so great to be able to catch the the negative self-talk in a seven year old.
 You know, the negative self-talk in a 19 year old.
 It is so great to be able to see it.
 And not respond out of control and not respond freaking out. And instead go, hey, baby, let's talk about that.
 And I think that's a great experience in writing. Now, what do you know, and actually walk through the very life giving process of helping them to get over that kind of stuff.
 So last question I've got for you from what you've learned.
 What is the one piece of advice you want to leave with our listeners who are struggling in life or doing well, but no, there may be even a better way.
 Just call it Chris and make your appointment with a life and get it done.
 I really, as far as what I would tell somebody that's looking for change and looking to see what they could do.
 I can't overemphasize and I know Chris didn't ask me to say this.
 But it was so helpful for me to sit down and talk to somebody that was unbiased that didn't have a horse in this race and to be able for him to, for Joel to be able to help me connect the dogs.
 And it wasn't that Joel told me what all I needed to do. It was more that he helped me to see. And it was so powerful both for our marriage and it, of course, that extends to our business to our kids.
 I would just highly encourage you, take the time to sit down and think about how your life could be different and what you're going to do about making a different.
 And you know, you may need help to walk through that. And I couldn't recommend next couple of life more for that. That's it's a great opportunity.
 Worth everything we spend.
 Fantastic. Well, Charlotte, thank you so much for spending this time.
 Thank you for sharing with people.
 I know this is a vulnerable thing to do to come on and actually be interviewed on a show and talk about these things.
 So it means the world to me. So I really appreciate it. So thank you for joining us.
 I could do it. Glad to do it.
 Well folks, there you have it. It is changing life is not easy.
 Getting the tools to change life is not easy.
 Making the decision and working through fears and vulnerability is not easy.
 But I can tell you, Ed, for single time you hear somebody talk about this.
 Every time you hear the same exact thing on the other side.
 Man, I wish I had done this a lot earlier.
 Man, I'm so glad that I've gotten through this. You know, man, I'm so glad that now I have these tools.
 Because I can move forward. And I look at life differently and I look at myself differently and I look at my family different.
 So if you would like that change, go to Chrissacardo.com, click on next level life and have a conversation about it.
 Have a discussion with Holland. She will talk to you through everything, explain everything, walk you through everything and help you to know what you can expect in this process.
 But again, Charlotte, no, we appreciate you for coming on and helping people to understand.
 It's better to get over fear than to live in fear.
 So thank you for that.
 You like to pay welcome.
 Of course, there you have it. We hope this has helped you today. As always, we want you to take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]