 Welcome to the show folks. We are glad you are joining us for another episode on the stress effect.
 This has been a great big topic. A lot of information that we've been discussing.
 Brian Alex is joining me again on the show.
 I hope that's not stressful.
 Is that part of the stress effect?
 That's not the stress effect.
 Okay, good. But I don't know what you're going to say.
 No, stress effect.
 So for those of you that are listening to us and if you haven't discovered yet,
 you can also watch these episodes.
 We have got this on clo.tv, cl0.tv.
 We have got the videos of, I don't know, how many half a dozen or so up there now.
 And we are continuing to record these both for the podcast itself,
 but we're also doing the video as well.
 So you can listen, you can watch whatever you would like to do.
 Now, today we are carrying on. We have discussed a lot about stress and how it affects us.
 And we want heavy into the different personality styles on what does it look like for the D, the I, the S and the C.
 Every time we talk into the different personality styles, we have some specific caveats.
 Some things that, as you listen to it, you might go, well,
 I relate, but not 100% to what Chris said. So let me always say this.
 Well, let me say this. If you've not done your personality style, why have you not done this?
 Chrisacordal.com, go get your disc done, leaders, get your teams on this, get the video.
 It is one of the most powerful things for your business. There you go.
 Every time we talk through disc, I'm speaking in the D, the I, the S and the C.
 But you aren't just one of these. You are percentages of all of them.
 And you may be a tiny percentage of one. You might be two or three high percentages.
 I've never, I don't think I've ever seen anybody who's four high in everything.
 But you have a blend. So as we walk through this, we're going to hit specifically the individual profiles,
 but know that you might actually pick up a couple of different things.
 Sometimes you've asked like we've been talking, Brian, you're high D, high C.
 Very task-focused person, but sometimes you've asked late between that D and that C.
 And it looks alike. It seems alike and appears alike, but they have different results and
 stress on that kind of fun stuff. So just know that as we go forward.
 So we're going to carry on with what we're talking about. We're going to hit the,
 what do we do? What does healthy look like? What does it look like to respond in a healthy way
 to all of the things that I'm experiencing when I'm in a stressful situation?
 We're going to talk about you as an individual. We're going to talk about what does it look like for a leader.
 If you're a parent, if you're a leader at work, how do I respond all that kind of fun stuff?
 So we're going to dig heavy into this when we get back right after this.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 [Music]
 Alright folks, we are back and Brian Alex is joining me today. Brian with the three first names.
 I said, we're like, just say Brian because it confuses people.
 Confuses me. It confuses you because people call you Alex don't they?
 They do. Yeah. So we're just going to say Brian. That's fine. And it's fine.
 I won't tell them that you're Brian Keith Alex because that would be really confusing.
 Brian is joining me today again to continue the discussion on the ongoing saga.
 The ongoing saga of what is the stress effect and how do we deal with that? So welcome.
 Thank you.
 No. Last time we really covered the negative aspects. We went into a lot of the unhealthy immature responses that the disk has.
 And again, just to recap, I forget who said it. I think her name was Heather.
 I forget the last low. I couldn't spell it.
 But she said that stress is not something that happens to you. It's a response that we have to the stimulus around us.
 And so, you know, if you're like me and you're nothing like me, but I'm talking out there. If you're like me, then you've been responding to a lot of this stress.
 I mean, if you don't have any stress in your life right now, that is,
 wow, where are you? Please write us. Tell us what's going on in your world or where you're camped out and Russia.
 I don't know. How are you getting this episode?
 I haven't done the woods, but it's great. Yeah. And how did you get this? Tell us how you heard about us.
 But no, everybody's really with or dealing with responding to stress.
 And I mean, you know, even in the last week, wow, so many things going on at once. And then even in our personal lives, I'll talk for myself, you know, started at four o'clock this morning.
 And I feel like some days, I'm just kind of rolling with punches, but I'm seeing that throughout my day, everything that I'm dealing with, I'm able to put into practice what we teach here.
 How we deal with personality styles, clear communication, you know, assessing where I'm becoming a victim.
 And I'm kind of getting that mentality, where I'm to emotional, where I'm being logical, my decision making clarity, all of that comes into play.
 And this is what we want to help people do. And so we're creating this contrast between unhealthy, healthy, immature, mature.
 And so that's where we want to press into today. And again, another caveat is the when we say immature and mature, we're saying not age.
 We're talking about how much you understand your personality style.
 The less immature doesn't really understand how they act react, give information, receive information, the more you understand that the more mature you are in that.
 Interestingly, as you're applying a lot of this stuff to life, you're also a dad.
 And you're applying, you're taking a hard look at how you respond, how your kids respond, what does that look like as a parent to recognize stress?
 You guys have experienced stress, changing countries is not easy. And you still have one back in Sicily. So for those that don't know Brian was the first team member at the point main group way back in the day.
 Back in the day and then the part.
 And the back porch is we're building this company. And then you guys went on missions. And so six years later, you've returned your youngest daughter has returned and she's in the building helping out.
 I love it.
 So great.
 My god daughter's so glad that that one of them is here, but one is also still back in Sicily during COVID.
 And it'll be shut down hard. So you've experienced experience of stress on a couple of levels. What has that been like as a father looking at the things that we're talking about leading you leading your kids all like that.
 So it doesn't matter if you're CEO or dad or an employee or all of us have in some sphere of relationship, the ability to put these things into practice.
 And as we're talking through this, stress presses on our insecurities.
 And in into our root system and it challenges us on major underlying root issues, fear, control, where things that we talk about all the time and in our next level of life.
 And so as a dad, I'm constantly doing battle with those lies and my head from my own past and root system and everything.
 Trying to lean in the direction of my children understanding their personalities. So all of this stuff that we're talking about is Uber, practical, everyday life stuff.
 And I think an important thing to recognize is that the sooner your kids and so let me just speak to everybody on this.
 As a parent, one of the things that we see all the time is, I can't be fallible to my kids. The fear of being fallible to your kids, the fear of your kids seeing your failure, the fear that if they see that you're a failure,
 they're all of a sudden going to judge you and think, "Oh, well, crap, now I can't love dad anymore." Dad's not, he makes mistakes.
 Screw dad, I'm going to go, you know, live my life, elsewhere, all that kind of stuff.
 Folks, here's what you need to understand. Think about it the same way as if your parent came to you and said, "I've screwed up. Here's what I've done wrong. Here's how I raised you.
 I screwed up, I did good here, but I screwed up over here. Here's some specific things that I messed up on. I'm my human being.
 God, you're true, actual parent. He's the one who owns you. He's the one who created you. He's the one who has your destiny.
 Is it perfect, father? Perfect, father. I'm a mess up. I've screwed up. I've been a failure. Guess what? I'm going to fail again in the future.
 If your parent came and talked to you that way, you would be able, well, let me just ask you, think about it for a second. How would you receive that? Now some of you are like, "Well, I'd be shocked.
 I don't know what to do. I don't know a lot of people will actually say, "Well, I don't know if I can believe my mom, my dad."
 But here's what most people come around to. Yeah, I'd be okay with that. I'd actually be glad that they shared that information.
 The opposite of that is like we talk about with surface level responses, this guilt transfer and blame game, right stuff.
 And so would you rather that your parent, guilt transfer, or played the blame game, or owned their, you know, fallibility, their failures?
 I think the vulnerability that comes across is a teaching tool. I mean, just this morning, case and point, I left a voicemail, voice message from my daughter over in Sicily
 and said, "Hey, you know, this thing that we're wrestling with is a family right now. I need to own this and I need to apologize because I let something go on for so long
 and I owned that mistake because now they're having to wrestle with it too.
 And their own lives because it was, you know, it's not hereditary, but it's something that's learned behaviors inside of the home.
 So the quicker we are to identify those unhealthy or immature behaviors and can rectify them, resolve them, the sooner we stop transferring them onto, you know, our children or the people around us and perpetuating those, those negatives, the lie exactly.
 So here's what I want you to think about. I want you to take this from two aspects, one, the aspect of a parent.
 And now they they aspect of a leader, right? So just as Brian just shared, the thing to understand is the sooner you do that, the sooner the child and as I'm using that example of what would you do when you're if you're parented this, the sooner you start to recognize that your parent is fallible and it's okay.
 And you start to recognize that it's okay for you as a parent to be fallible that your kid is not going to no matter what their age is, they're not going to piece out and like, you know, forget you now that I see that you've made mistakes.
 Here's the shocking surprising thing, parents and leaders.
 Your kids and your team already know your mistake already know.
 There we go, cats out of the bag.
 They know you screw up. So here's what I want you to recognize. The sooner you're okay with it, the sooner they don't receive that their failures because you refuse to be a failure.
 You refuse to say, and I'm not saying that you are labeled a failure that you're going, you know, failure is situations as said failures, a situation not a person.
 The sooner you can admit that you failed, I have screwed up so many things in my life. I have made a lot of mistakes, I've heard people.
 I've just done a lot of screw up things in my life, right?
 Being self aware allows me to show other people, I am fallible. Don't put me on a pedestal.
 I'm not the one that you need to look up to. You need to look up to Jesus. He's your market, right?
 The sooner you can get there, the sooner your kids can be okay with making mistakes themselves.
 The sooner your kids don't look to you and go, wow, apparently you don't screw anything up.
 The sooner you stop having to protect you, thinking you're protecting them.
 Well, if they discover this bad thing about me, then oh my gosh, what does that say about me?
 So the sooner we get past all the self protection, all of the, you know, I have to show that I'm infallible, I have to show that I'm perfect.
 The sooner we get through that, that's when people start to see reality.
 And every time that I've done that and applied that principle across the board, the response has been one of love and acceptance back.
 And it's brought us more intimacy. It's brought us more communication and clarity in our relationship.
 And that has been a welcome outcome. Not judgment, not criticism. Oh my gosh, Dad, I'm so shocked and surprised.
 Like when you take responsibility, have you ever received from your kids? I'm so surprised that I know that.
 Well, I know. They knew it. And I was the one dealing with my own self awareness and whether or not I was going to accept the fact that I do something or I behave in a certain way.
 Exactly. And telling yourself the lie that you're keeping them from knowing this. They don't see that I've screwed up, which is just beyond ridiculous.
 So so here we go. We want to dive into the disc just like we did on the on the unhealthy or in the tour side.
 We want to look at those behaviors that we can set as markers to understand, okay, this is a better response.
 This is a healthier response to stress and duress. And I want you to, as we do this, I want you to tease this part out because I came back on board in September.
 And there was some stress, cross cultural stuff, family stuff, etc. And as I was going through that, you caught me on a few occasions and highlighted.
 Well, okay, I see what you're doing and it's fine, but you're really coping with the thing you're not really resolving the thing.
 And I would go take a walk or whatever and try to, you know, hide, try to cool down or however that stress was manifesting that day.
 However, I was responding to it, you would press me into a little bit deeper, a little bit more healthy, I guess, response to that. I would love for you to talk about that as we roll through.
 So how do healthy deeds respond to stress?
 So before I hit the individual D, there's some things that are cross the board.
 We're going to hit specifics, but there's some things across the board that each person should do, doesn't matter what personality style you are.
 Things that you have to, I say have to, let me set everybody's reality. If you don't do this, you're so.
 If you're going to be successful, like you just shared, there's a lot of people who teach cope cope with this, numb from this, you know, a lot of people out there are teaching, here's your struggle, here's how to deal with the struggle, right?
 And we're going to hit some of those things, even as surface level coping mechanisms. We don't want you to cope, we want you to actually solve it. The problem is, as at a lot of times people can't get to that resolution because they don't understand their root system.
 We've not spent time digging in and discovering what's actually causing the responses the way that they are.
 So there are things that it's like, well, okay, if you are really jacked up do this, I will remove yourself.
 But so we'll hit some of those and we talked about that a little bit last time.
 We're just a little bit about that last time. Worst case scenario, you know, high D go for a walk, get your butt out of the situation, go cool off, take 20 minutes, let your amygdala reset.
 Great. You're protecting yourself, you're protecting others. If you need to do that, okay, but we can develop some skill sets that will get us past that or that much faster, right?
 I mean, that's what we're after. So the things that we're going to hit that are common for everybody that everybody needs to do.
 And this is going to beat off because we said last time was going to be tough and this time was going to be all put in the south on the road and every other easy part.
 No, it's more tough. There's nothing that we teach.
 Just easy. It's just crazy.
 There's no flowers and the game is all that.
 Okay. First thing you have to do is you have to take responsibility.
 When you are in a stressful situation, rarely, rarely, rarely.
 I mean, fraction of a percentage is this happening to you.
 100% you don't have any part. There's nothing you can do.
 And that is that is so insanely rare. So what we say around here is controls an illusion. You can't control anyone. You can't control the way people think. You can't control the way people respond.
 You can only physically control another being.
 But that's it.
 If you're able to do that.
 But outside of that, all you can do is highly suggest the way that people think or feel all that kind of thing.
 And this is like bone of a, I mean, this is Victor Franco, search for me. This is we can only control our response.
 We can control our response. But what we convince ourselves is that we can control other people.
 And that's an illusion.
 That's an illusion.
 You can't control other people.
 You can control you.
 And so until you recognize that a lot of times people will also think that somebody else is absolutely controlling them.
 Okay, so I don't have a part in this. I don't take the stressful situation is just come up. And rarely do we have stressful situations that don't involve other people.
 Right.
 If there were no other people there be stress.
 So first thing you have to do is take response. What is my part in this?
 You know, and if you're already in victim mentality, then you're immediately going to say, well, I don't have any part. This is happening to me.
 That is not going to help you. It's going to cause you to, you know, immediately go to walls. It's going to cause you to blame shift. It's going to cause you to guilt transfer.
 Because you're the cause you to deflect, because you're all kinds of stuff, right?
 But if you can, if you desire to get through the stress and a healthy way, first ask the question, what's my part?
 So it's like we reset the frame a bit and try to look at it objectively to go, what's really happening in the situation.
 Yeah, I even will say back up and watch it like a movie.
 So back up a little bit and kind of, you know, oh my gosh, I hate to even use the phrase out of, you know, out of body type of experience because that's so lame.
 But for us for the trees.
 We're so embedded in what's going on. We can't see big picture.
 Okay.
 So back up and take a look and say, well, what is my part in this situation? What's happening? What's my responsibility?
 The sooner you can get to that, the sooner you can start taking responsibility instead of looking for places to blame.
 People who guilt, ways to deflate all that crap, right?
 Yeah.
 Second thing is after you can say, I do have some responsibility no matter, even if you just get to a small portion of it,
 next thing to do is to gain perspective.
 What is going on? What's happening? Why is this happening? How did this happen?
 What's the thing? What's the actual stress that's going on?
 By asking perspective, guy, then questions, you might look and see, oh my gosh, I caused this thing.
 You might look and see, oh my gosh, somebody's trying to be very controlling in this situation.
 Oh my gosh, I have greater responsibility on that thought. Oh my gosh, I can actually put in super healthy boundaries.
 But until you start asking what the crap is going on, you don't know. You just immediately respond the force of habit way that you've always responded.
 So whatever that surface level response is, if you're a high D and you feel out of control and so you jump into anger, you're there.
 If you're not asking the question, what's actually happening, then you're already moving on that I'm going to respond with anger.
 And I imagine those decisions that come out of that with the emotional driver like that is probably not the decision that it's the best decisions that have ever been made.
 We're not going to look back and go, wow, those were brilliant. Really?
 I'm so hard looking.
 Yeah, that doesn't happen.
 That doesn't happen.
 Okay.
 In fact, we look back on it and here's one or two things. If we are mature, we go, well, I screwed that up.
 Again, you know, like you're the voice mail that you laughed, hey, I screwed that up, taking responsibility.
 But what we tend to do is go, aha, see, I was a victim in this.
 Aha, I responded right. Aha.
 The more mature, the more fresh that you are with how you responded. So gain perspective.
 Okay.
 The next thing you need to do is ask yourself, what are you telling yourself?
 What am I telling myself? And usually what we will say is, especially in something like next level of life,
 or, you know, if we're working with leaders during an event or a shop planner or something like that,
 we'll say, what is the lie you're telling yourself right now?
 And people go, I'm not telling myself, lie. Okay. Well, what's the thing you're telling yourself?
 That I'm a total failure.
 Okay. Is that true?
 No.
 You know, I don't want to fail at this.
 The thing, you know, people are going to be judging me. This, this, this, this, this, and what you discover pretty quickly is the
 negative self-talk that you're telling yourself in that moment tends to be a lie.
 You know, I don't know that we're really taught how to self-assess like that.
 It's not something I at least, I don't do it in eightly or, you know, naturally.
 I need to be provoked or I need to learn this, this behavior to assess and be aware of what am I thinking,
 why am I thinking that? Where's that coming from and assess? Do I want to keep thinking that or not?
 Well, yeah. So if you think about it, how did you get to this place? You know, you just left a voice
 mouth for your daughter because you taught her something.
 The way that you handled the situation, train her.
 It trained her on her worth. It trained her on what to think about the situation,
 a trainer, what to believe. So that's what you taught her.
 You're now changing that. You're changing the narrative for her.
 You're teaching her, hey, that was wrong. Dad screwed up.
 I made a mistake. Here's how we're going to look at this.
 Here's how we should move forward.
 And you're helping her to create a different decision-making process.
 So the very thing you just said is that we're not trained this.
 Well, what we talk about is that you're setting up your decision-making process by how you teach and train your kids.
 Right? So if at an early age, I'm teaching my kids, hey, I just screwed that up.
 And I'm now caveat, not the ridiculousness that's happening nowadays of you can tell your kids.
 No, this poor parenting of, you don't give your kids responsibility.
 That is in no way shape or form what I'm talking about here.
 So you see it a lot. That's not what I'm talking about.
 What I'm talking about is you screw something up and you come back and you go, you know what?
 Dad messed up.
 I shouldn't have responded that way. I shouldn't have done this thing over here.
 I shouldn't have whatever.
 Not I shouldn't have given you a consequence for making bad decisions.
 By doing that, you're teaching them, oh, Dad's taking responsibility for his response.
 Cried, I need to take responsibility for my response.
 All of a sudden, nobody's a victim anymore.
 Exactly.
 But they see the person teaching and training them doing that very thing that nobody teaches and trying.
 It's right. So once they see that, they go, oh, I need to do this.
 The same thing we teach about choices and consequences.
 When you teach a child, when you teach a team member, when you teach a leader,
 if you choose this bad choice, you get this bad consequence.
 If you choose this good choice, you get this good consequence.
 You're choice. You can do it. If you want to show it, light every single day for work,
 guess what you're choosing to get fired.
 It's your choice. You don't have to do it.
 You can keep doing it. It's completely up to you.
 This is where control is a reality in the sense that we control our responses, our decisions,
 and then we have to own those consequences that come.
 We do.
 Here's the problem.
 We live in a society nowadays that's telling you that if you got fired for showing up late,
 multiple times, that you worked for a bad boss, we live in a victim mentality.
 You can say, "Sleepy."
 Right. Yes. Exactly.
 There's no way we see any of this going on right now in our country.
 And all the different things that we're experiencing, the politics of this country right now,
 are beyond stupid victim mentality.
 So you see it everywhere. And it teaches and it trains you.
 You're a victim to this situation. Don't take responsibility.
 That is, you can do that, but don't wonder why life just sucks because you never have responsibility for your choices.
 So the last thing in this, there's so much, "Yes, I don't know, world, I'm going to do all these things."
 So I'm going to summarize again.
 Take responsibility. Stop and take a look at what your part in this is.
 Game perspective. What's actually happening? What happened? Why did it happen?
 Again, perspective on how it even got the stress situation even got to this place,
 because that helps you to make better decisions.
 What's the thing you're telling yourself? What's the lie you're telling yourself?
 We've got a battle in negative self-talk. It's fast as possible.
 Next thing is, and this is a tough one to, if you've been doing this for a long time,
 this is a tough one to understand.
 And that is you have to understand the difference between emotion and negative self-talk.
 So for some folks, the concept of when that negative self-talk comes up, when that lie comes up,
 I'm going to be a failure. I've failed. I saw people are judging me.
 They relate that with an emotion that it's the same thing that the negative self-talk is.
 A emotion. And it's totally not. It's not the same thing. It is something that you're telling yourself.
 They believe that that negative self-talk coming up, that negative lie that's coming up, is a positive one.
 That lie that's coming up is a organic emotion that they're experiencing, and that's not truth.
 The truth is you're telling yourself something and you're believing it.
 You're running with it. And you believe if you apply it to a feeling, if you apply it to an emotion, then what you're saying,
 because the world is telling us for decades, your feelings are valid, your emotions are valid.
 And you have to accept those. Those are there. Those are real. Listen, we all have feelings. We all have emotions.
 No ifsans are buts about it. It's okay to feel angry if you feel angry.
 It's okay to feel sad if you feel sad. How you respond to it is considerably different than the emotion you're experiencing.
 It's a difference between acknowledging that it's there and accepting it as a reality and receiving it as your reality.
 Yeah, I told Heather last night. We had two weeks with our granddaughter, with one of our many granddaughters.
 Another intern in the house. Yes, she was an intern here. Our seven year old who was helping out Catherine Cook. She used to do all kinds of stuff here.
 And I told Heather last night, it's a funny we brushing our teeth, our teeth, our teeth, our teeth, our teeth, all of them.
 And I looked at her and said, hey, I'm grieving.
 And she goes because of Harlan. I said, yeah, I'm, I didn't realize it. You know. And so it's interesting.
 Where for me, I come home, I see the little soap bubble thingy in the bathtub.
 That's it in there. You know, her car seat still in the car.
 And I very quickly, I have two options here. Continue to grow in the sadness and make myself a victim and be sad and live in the sadness and take it out on other people and and and and and and allow to grow or go, hey, what are you feeling?
 That's an emotion. I'm feeling sad. What are you acknowledging? Why am I sad? Because I had to take her home.
 Wow, okay. Well, acknowledgement. That's what I'm feeling. So what I'll do about it. Get over it. How do you get over it?
 Recognize that it's okay to be sad that she's gone.
 But do not continue to act on the sadness. Get rid of any negative. So oh my gosh, I wish you was here. I hate that she's not here.
 Get rid of that negative wallo in that for a while. And yeah, if you want it.
 Exactly. And what people don't understand is they think the wallowing, which is the negative self talk, is the emotion and it's not.
 The emotion is the sadness. The emotion is the grief. The negative self talk that I keep telling myself and adding on to it is something I'm in control of.
 I can very quickly go to knock it off. So as I'm standing there, brush my teeth and I go, huh.
 And through my head, we literally do the things we teach here. What are you experiencing? Oh, what's that? What are you telling yourself? Oh, okay. Well, what's the truth?
 This isn't the end of my time with one of my granddaughters, all of my grandchildren. It's not done yet. I have more great opportunities.
 God has blessed me with two solid weeks with one of them. My gosh, I hope I can get others for any move to gratitude.
 I'm with to gratitude. And so he very easily, I just go, hey, yeah, I'm grieving.
 And Heather's like, yeah, okay, I can say that and done. It's over with. It's not a continued. I still miss her. I still wish she was here. I wish any of my grandkids were here.
 But I'm able to work on the thing.
 That's helpful perspective just to watch the mechanics of how those thoughts come in. The feelings are there acknowledging, but then deciding what you're going to do.
 And we're doing the same thing with stress. We're acknowledging that it's present. We're going to take our temperature. Okay. I'm feeling this response to this stimulus.
 And so now I can having a sast or having acknowledged that I can determine what I want to do with it.
 Exactly. Exactly. And I know it's so funny as we teach these things. So let me add a fifth piece to this.
 And that is practice. You have to practice as we talk through this people go, well, geez, Chris, that sounds so easy to say. And I'm like, oh, no, it is very easy to say.
 It's difficult to walk out. But what are your alternatives? If you do not begin to practice taking your thoughts.
 If you do not begin to practice battling the lies with the actual truths. If you do not begin to beat down the negative self talk with truth, perspective reality. If you don't start doing that, you don't get to the place where you're standing there.
 You know, in within a minute, you're moving past grief. Doesn't change that the emotion still there. But the negative self talk is gone within seconds. Where in the old days when I started doing this way back in the day when I felt like, god taught me how to do this.
 Man, there were some that took me an hour. There were some that took a lot of battle, a lot over and over again. So you have to practice to get to a place of constantly recognized negative thought negative thought negative thought.
 There's probably about 400,000 negative thoughts that get through in a day that I don't catch right. I catch the 47.
 That really start moving me in an emotional way and moving me towards some sort of self protection, victim, and tell you whatever.
 I catch those and I beat them up and knock them down and move on. So yeah, reality check, we don't have any guarantee that the rest of this year is going to get better, that it's going to get easier, that the stress is going to go away.
 Level seven of Jumanji is going to be better than it is right now.
 That all of our that all of our grieving over the past normal that we wish we could go back to is just magically going to reappear. It may not. It probably won't. And so with that, we have an excellent opportunity to do exactly what you're saying put this in the practice now.
 Absolutely. What choice do we have?
 And we are going to tease people because we're going to share that information when we come back right after this.
 Next level of life is our two day personal discovery experience. It's a one on one personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover your root system.
 To get on stuck in life and to discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace.
 Imagine this. What if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose? What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict?
 Where would you be in a few months a year, five years if you had clarity, purpose and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today. Now I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself is there more. There is.
 And there is a better way and it starts with next level life. You can go to crissacrata.com/discover to take the next step.
 Now if you're struggling with this contentment regret or not feeling good enough which most of you are.
 If you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking, don't keep going through the same motions every single day.
 Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace. Go to crissacrata.com/discover and take the next step.
 [Music]
 All right folks, we are back and we are continuing on with the stress effect and we are now at the time of what do I do as an individual personality style.
 Now everything that we just shared is enough. You need to do no matter what personality style you are.
 We are going to hit some of the individual stuff.
 Right. So we are starting with the DEC that is in our acronym.
 We are starting up the DEC.
 I am the DEC so I get at the front and then at the very end.
 But let me go back to September, got back stressful situations going on.
 This reverse culture shock and just dealing with stress and then coming into the environment here.
 I have been out of an office for six years coming back into a lot of different things going on.
 And so coping with that, I am thinking, "Okay, what can I do? I can exercise? I can do things."
 And you were teasing out here and there.
 Okay. Well you are doing good. You are managing those emotions fine.
 That is coping to a certain extent. It is only going to get you so far.
 It is not going to solve it. So help us see what are some of those coping mechanisms that aren't harmful,
 but they are not going to get us from A to B. They are not going to grow us.
 And you started pressing on me in certain ways as a D to get us to get me a little farther down the path.
 So let's press into that.
 So just quickly, I am going to hit some of the negative tendencies.
 And immature idea is going to respond with anger.
 The threat of anger, frustration. They are going to wear it all over themselves.
 They are going to punch walls. They are going to hit things.
 That is very immature. I did not hit.
 And if not anything in the office.
 No people are going to be in the office.
 No people are going to be in the office.
 No one else is behind.
 No one else is behind.
 No one else is behind.
 In this video.
 A healthy ear coping is go physically where this out.
 Go for a walk. Go for a run. Go lift heavy weights.
 Go do something physically.
 The high D when they feel that heavy stress and they start with that response,
 what they don't real, what happens inside is you get all of this adrenaline.
 You get all of this.
 Cortisol, everybody gets the cortisol dump.
 Everybody gets the adrenaline dump.
 But the high D physically needs to do something.
 And so a coping mechanism would be the very thing you are doing.
 Go for a walk.
 Get up.
 Leave.
 Walk around the building.
 Go for a mile or whatever.
 What is myself in the situation?
 You are going to get a reset.
 And I believe we explained this in the first episode.
 If we didn't let me just hit it again.
 Inside the limbic system of your brain is the amygdala.
 The amygdala sets how you are going to respond to situations.
 So if you are frustrated, it is usually a 20 minute time period.
 It can go up to 20 minutes.
 If you get through it faster, like I say, you use the right tools.
 You get through it in 30 seconds a minute.
 A lot of times five minutes.
 But in that, in the amygdala, it is set for 20 minutes.
 So you are brain is saying, you can respond this way for the next 20 minutes.
 And if you don't get it, you can't get it.
 Then usually you get over it within 20 minutes.
 So a lot of people listening right now are going, oh my gosh, that is my spouse.
 My spouse usually takes 20 minutes before they are like, okay, alright, I'm fine.
 I'm better.
 If you restart it, you restart that frustration again.
 Think of negative self talk with another human being.
 You sit around with somebody and the victim mentality.
 Oh yeah, you are a victim.
 You don't really believe they will. Then you just restart it again and you're considering that.
 You're continuing that from start to patch you.
 Exactly. So the high D subconsciously recognizes, if I will go for a walk, I'm going to be okay in a certain time frame.
 They don't recognize, oh my amygdala is telling me, I have 20 minutes.
 Yeah, alright.
 So they get up and they get going.
 Another big piece is what you said, remove yourself from these stressful situations.
 So those are healthy coping mechanisms. That's not going to solve the problem.
 So when we go back and we take a look at the five pieces we talked about beforehand, if we're going to get to the what the crap is going on how to resolve it.
 How do I resolve this thing? You've got to plug all of those pieces in.
 Now for the high D specifically to the high D.
 As you're going through some of the things as far as taking responsibility and gaining perspective is
 recognizing what you will normally do to other people in the moment.
 Okay.
 So the sooner you can go, hey my go to, my force of habit is I want you to know I'm pissed.
 I want you to see my responses physically.
 We project that emotion when it's that kind of intensity.
 Then yeah, that projection comes on and then the other person really feels us radiating that.
 And we feel in control again because you're no longer responding or or whatever.
 And that's in a specific situation if another person's involved, right?
 But the key is I feel out of control.
 So I'm going to try and control people or outcomes.
 And for the high D, it's through anger. It's through frustration.
 There are times one of the things we tell people,
 look up at it for all of our events, one on one events, whether it's next level of live,
 strap, plan, whatever, as we tell people, hey we watch every but of your body language.
 They're like, I know I know.
 It's like, no, it's not a bad thing.
 It's not we're not looking to judge and criticize.
 It's giving us information.
 You're feeding us information to know what you're experiencing in the moment.
 It helps us to know, oh, you're frustrated.
 You struggle with that.
 You looked away.
 You're cross your leg.
 That direction.
 You cross your leg back.
 You know, we're looking for all of those pieces.
 Why do you keep playing with your nails? Why do you keep doing?
 We're seeing how you're responding because so many times it's so difficult not to respond outwardly.
 For the high D, you can control people by shutting them down.
 You've with showing frustration or anger.
 You have to recognize, I have a tendency to go this direction.
 And here's the thing.
 It doesn't solve the stressful situation.
 It causes you to feel like you're back in control because it may shut the other person down.
 So if you're responding, if you're, you know, in those moments you're high D, you're focusing in the D moment.
 If you're responding with somebody else and you just show them, I'm pissed.
 And it's not somebody else who's going to either be mature enough to set healthy boundaries or somebody who else is a high D.
 Then what they do is they act with us.
 Brian's pissed, I don't want Brian to be pissed. If it's a IRS, S, people pleasing mode, I need to just shut down.
 And we're not going to let the others in the office hear this pause.
 No, they don't actually get to listen to the rest.
 Because I want them having tools to kind of deal with.
 Oh my gosh, just tell you, okay.
 The last thing you want is our own people have tools.
 Exactly.
 So I want to be in control.
 Okay. So when you recognize how you tend to respond, you can shift that.
 Hey, don't do this.
 And like you said, we're kind of zooming out to see ourselves here.
 Self awareness and then I can go, oh, I have a tendency to do this.
 Okay, I need to, what do I do?
 Exactly.
 Help me do it.
 So the sooner I can see how I'm going to react.
 The sooner how I can see how I'm going to go into victim mentality or what's the lie that I normally tell myself in a situation or or.
 Then instead of building up with anger, frustration, whatever it is, I can start talking myself down and going hold on a second.
 You don't have, don't respond, angry.
 Don't respond, frustrated.
 And again, I'm talking about in a healthy response.
 I'm not saying there aren't times that there's righteous anger.
 I'm not saying there aren't times.
 If I somebody abusing somebody, you're doing skipy every button, you know, every part of my personality style.
 Doesn't matter what it is, is going to move straight to.
 Righteous anger, I'm going to solve this problem.
 And that's that's emotional and logical exact at the same time.
 Yes.
 To come in and rescue someone who's being abused in a situation like that and it's a extreme.
 But over here on the other side, what we're talking about is in her everyday.
 In her office or in the home dynamics when we feel that we have to overlay and go, okay, this is emotion right now.
 Is it also a logical measured response?
 Exactly.
 To what's going on?
 Yes.
 The other key thing is to look at.
 So these will do this.
 Sees will do this.
 Eyes can do this heavily as well.
 Is do I shame other people in this moment because I'm out of control?
 So be very cheesy with your words.
 Okay.
 Recognize where you're going.
 Start to count this thing down.
 Listen, you're going to do this.
 You're going to do this.
 You're going to do this.
 Don't be angry.
 Don't be frustrated.
 Bite your tongue for a minute.
 Walk through all the other pieces.
 So push the anger.
 The frustration back for the Heidi.
 Settle that it doesn't mean that you're repressing.
 Actual feelings.
 It's saying.
 Repress the response.
 I mean, it's out of control.
 We had to acknowledge that that emotion was there.
 So we're acknowledging that emotion.
 We're taking our temperature.
 We're assessing.
 But then we're determining what we want to do.
 Exactly.
 With it.
 And that's not repression.
 That's guiding it.
 And so then the emotion gets out of the driver seat over to the passenger seat.
 And we're in the driver seat.
 And we're in control of our responses now while still acknowledging the presence of that emotion.
 Exactly.
 So the sooner you can do that, then the sooner you can start to respond to the stressful situation with
 Good quality perspective.
 How do I solve this?
 You know, you shut down what you normally would respond.
 And one again, I hate to use the term shut down for people who are going to run with that and go, oh,
 Chris, the thing don't ever feel anything.
 That is not what I'm saying.
 Take control of your actions.
 Take control of your responses.
 So it doesn't mean that I still don't.
 I'm not frustrated.
 You can't do that if you're out of control with those emotions.
 That's the bottom line.
 That's the bottom line.
 So now that I'm here, how do I solve this?
 What a solution look like?
 How do I diffuse myself and the stressful situation as well?
 What do I tend to do with other personality styles?
 And Chris Camp was, he's the only who actually asked the question during next level leadership live event of how to
 the different personality styles respond to stress.
 You know, and I posed it back to him.
 What's the difference between, you know, before next level, I've been after.
 And he's like, I asked a ton more questions now.
 Perspective together.
 Yeah, instead of me responding, I'll start asking questions as somebody else.
 Because here's a deal.
 If I feel out of control because of the stressful situation,
 but I recognize, man, I can gain a lot of perspective.
 I also might get a solution in here.
 By involving other people asking questions, how do we solve this?
 What do we do about this?
 Do you think that's the right way for you to respond?
 You know, if I start getting into that question asking,
 then I'm taking the focus off of, I'm a victim.
 I'm taking the focus off of, I need to self-protect.
 I'm taking the focus off of, I need to build the wall.
 Right?
 I need to be defensive.
 So the sooner the Heidi gets into that mode,
 the more powerful it is because they're now they're working on,
 let's get to solution.
 Let's not focus on anger.
 Let's not focus on frustration.
 Let's not shut other people down in the moments because we know that's what tends to happen.
 And then we walk away in the Heidi feels in control,
 but then we don't have a good solution.
 So that's essentially the D.
 Now, some other things you can do in the meantime.
 It doesn't hurt to go take a walk with somebody.
 We're going to talk through this, but let's also get a little physical walk in.
 Right? Let's go, let's go, let's go.
 Here's a stressful situation, Brian.
 How about we go for a walk and let's talk through this?
 There've been times I've taken a personality style that I knew
 that was going to be frustrated for a walk.
 And just go, let's walk through this because now they're,
 you're kind of fast tracking.
 I'm allowing them to get out in cobe while I'm talking to them about something
 that's going to be frustrating or hurtful or whatever.
 And it really helps.
 So it doesn't mean that you can't do the code.
 I have to sit in the chicis that I had to sit in the chicis that is not what I'm saying.
 Just don't end with coping.
 Get to the resolve.
 Get to these other pieces so you can get down to the root of it and go.
 Stop my force of habit negative or immature response.
 Let's respond in a very mature way.
 So that's a deep.
 Okay.
 So I'm very happy to have arrived here where for the next two letters.
 I have virtually no dog in that hunt.
 I've got a lot of eye on the focus goes back over here.
 I'm out of the hot sea until we get to the sea and then I get my toast stepped on again.
 So help us with the eye.
 How does an eye respond healthily to stress?
 Yeah.
 And so just so that people know and the people ask this question during the next level leadership live event.
 Well, what's Chris's personality?
 I think maybe we asked it of people and hey, guess what it is and you know, you want to t-shirt or something like that.
 And it's interesting.
 Those who know me, those who've been with us for a long time.
 I've really got very close, but a lot of people see me and go, oh, he's got to be a high super-idee.
 Because I'm so confident.
 I have a lot of confidence because I've worked through all the stuff that we're teaching, right?
 And because of the role you're leading and so they see you directing.
 Yeah, but I'm I'm a very high S.
 A very high I and about a middd 40 to 50% d.
 About a 40 C in there, which I've adapted that over the years.
 I forced that to happen.
 So for me, doing the very things that we're talking about is what's got me to the confidence to be able to do what we do.
 It's not a, oh, I changed the personality style notes.
 I'm still a very high S.
 And everybody around here knows that, right?
 So as we go through these next two pieces, this does speak a lot to me.
 The high I now, all eyes have now just turned off the podcast.
 [laughter]
 How long did he spend on the D?
 I'm going to turn it back on and if you listen, eyes, it is the toughest for the eyes.
 Here are the negative.
 The eye doesn't like to hear negative stuff about themselves.
 And it's painful, right?
 Because why?
 The eye tendency we're going to hit the negative very quickly.
 The eye tendency is I can't be a failure.
 Everybody fears failure, but the eye really takes the personal failure on how to identify with it.
 Identifies who they are.
 If so, something is negative being said, I must avoid.
 I must blame shift, deflect, divert, I must do whatever I can.
 The heavy immature eye in those moments will attack.
 The heavy immature eye feels attacked.
 If I say, hey, Brian, you didn't get your weekly report in on time.
 Why are you yelling at me?
 Do not yelling at all.
 Just ask me, well, it feels like you're in and they can feel like they're being attacked.
 Because what they're hearing is you did something wrong.
 You didn't do something right.
 And so the immediately go to unbing attacked.
 In my worth, my value, my sense of out of control, all of that system.
 Immediately.
 And the lie, the negative self-talk that starts running like crazy is, I'm a failure.
 You think I'm a failure.
 I screwed this thing up.
 I can't handle that.
 And so the eye's tendency is to push it out.
 It's somebody else's fault.
 Let me blame somebody else.
 Let me blame a situation.
 Let me blame a process that's jacked up.
 Let me let me guilt transfer somebody somewhere.
 Let me, you know, it's you're the one who did this, right?
 Whatever that is, it's we go to push the blame out.
 So for the high eye, in a, there's not a whole lot of great coping things for the eye
 in the moment, you have to jump straight to that perspective.
 Yeah, then it's not like the high D where, hey, you can go for a walk, don't punch a wall, right?
 For the high eye, it is more of a get to that perspective as fast as you possibly can.
 Because you're immediately going to that negative self-talk.
 So what's really going on?
 What's my responsibility?
 What's happening?
 What am I telling myself?
 What's the lie I'm telling myself?
 What's the emotion I'm experiencing in this?
 Or maybe having some, you know, healthy people around you that can support and give you accountability
 that aren't going to feed into the victim mentality and the lies that you're telling yourself, but are going to give you some good objective perspective around that.
 If you need to reach out to somebody instead of sitting in it, because I remember as we talked about these things last week,
 one of those knee-jerk reactions on the unhealthy and mature side is to remove ourselves, not just from situation, but also from people.
 But if we have healthy people that can say, "Hey, press into me on this," or give me some perspective, how do you experience when I'm in a stressful situation,
 talk to me about mirror, you know, for me.
 So I can see what's going on.
 Our eyes open and then from that self-awareness we're empowered to actually resolve something.
 Now what you're saying, you're speaking from an advanced perspective.
 Okay.
 That's more of a 2.0, maybe a 3.0.
 This is for podcasts.
 I've always said that.
 Yes, exactly.
 And here's why I'm saying that.
 Okay.
 If I don't know what healthy people look like, yeah, all right.
 Then I might be choosing the very person who is just going to feed and the negativity.
 But also to be vulnerable enough to say, hey, Brian, would you poke at me right now and tell me that I'm being a victim?
 Yeah.
 Would you poke at me and tell me I'm responding to my gosh, all you're going to do is you're going to feed the fear.
 So we have to have that.
 Yeah, I mean, I can do that with you.
 Exactly.
 I come to you a couple of times a day nowadays, no.
 But it feels like that.
 But I can be vulnerable because I trust.
 It's the advanced place where you are, where we are.
 We are going to in a healthy way, present to me on that.
 Okay.
 So if we don't have that, where do we start?
 And it's like folks coming into like next level of life come in the building.
 They still got a wall up.
 They're still testing us.
 It's when they discover, oh my gosh, these people aren't going to judge the crap out of me.
 And I can trust them.
 And I can be vulnerable here.
 Man, the bricks start coming out of the wall quickly.
 You see it breakfast.
 Yeah.
 It's completely different person.
 The walks in the front door.
 By the time we've sat down at breakfast, you've had a cup of coffee.
 You're sitting around the table with the staff members.
 And we're eating breakfast together.
 And we're all sharing stories.
 Those walls start to come down.
 And there's some trust and vulnerability that starts to emerge.
 When you, yeah, you recognize these aren't unhealthy people that I'm dealing with.
 I can, I can say some things.
 So for that eye, a great point that you made is the isolation is not going to help you.
 Okay.
 Understand that isolating is only going to in free and force the negative self-talk.
 Because the moment you remove yourself,
 Bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, all those lies, all the justification happens in the eye.
 Every eye is going, yeah, I do that.
 You start telling, I was right.
 And it's personal advice.
 Yeah, their lies are sometimes about those other people that we isolate from.
 And then we just marinate, we all know in that negative.
 Yeah.
 So it's either going to be about the other people or it's going to be about how much of a victim you are.
 Okay.
 So instead, don't isolate.
 Instead, start walking through gaining that perspective as fast as possible.
 Am I a victim?
 Is something happening to me?
 Is this thing saying that I may complete failure start walking through the perspective gathering questions at point two actual truth?
 The faster you can get over a man's opinion of you.
 Man's opinion does not set my reality.
 I am not a failure even if this person thinks that I am, right?
 If you start asking these perspective gathering questions as a high eye,
 then you can start building the truth up super fast and start to diminish the desire
 to blame, to guilt, to isolate all that kind of stuff.
 So the faster the eye gets to those truth gathering perspective gathering questions of,
 does this define me?
 Am I a failure?
 If this is, you know, and one of the things I'll do all the time is the so what?
 No, well, but this is going to make me look bad.
 So what?
 What's going to happen on the other side of it?
 Well, I mean, somebody might judge me for how long they, I mean, you know, probably not that long.
 Have you had this happen before?
 Yeah, and are you alive today and everything's fine and you're moving forward?
 Yeah, okay, then so what?
 Now, if the so what is, oh my gosh, this is going to ruin somebody else, different response.
 You know, this is going to affect somebody else super negatively.
 Different response.
 How do we handle that?
 But what we find is 90, 95% of the time, that negative self-talk and all those lies are exactly that.
 Bull, they're lies.
 And I'm telling myself as fast as I can, I can't be a failure.
 I must remove myself from the situation.
 I must blame somebody else for this.
 I can't take responsibility.
 The faster the eye will take responsibility and start walking through those prospective gathering questions.
 They can settle themselves down.
 And if they have to put in healthy boundaries because somebody's just beaten the crap out of them with, look at what you did and whatever.
 Somebody setting your reality as an eye, you got to put those healthy boundaries in place.
 You can keep that.
 I'm not going to receive that.
 That's not helping the problem.
 We're not solving anything here.
 Let's get to solution.
 And then for me, as a believer in all personality styles, back all this stuff,
 up with God's truth about you.
 I am a created being.
 I can't make you worthy.
 I can't give you worth.
 I sure said can't take it away from you.
 Only Jesus can give you worth.
 You hope a God said what our worth is over and over again in his provenant in multiple ways.
 But we don't recognize that.
 We keep looking to other created beings to find our worth.
 So the faster I can get to what does God think.
 Is God looking done in this situation going your total failure.
 Man, I cannot believe you did.
 You put the toilet paper roll on the wrong way.
 Look at I just, I never did like you.
 I created you and you're the one I never like.
 That's not happening.
 Right.
 And only the creator assigns our value to that created thing.
 Exactly.
 Yeah.
 That's important across the board.
 No matter what.
 No matter what.
 Exactly.
 There are a few similarities here with the I and the S.
 Mm-hmm.
 And so talk to us about S's.
 So S, again, once again, the most misunderstood personality styleness is tough for people to understand.
 And misunderstood, but also didn't you say that, I mean, there are more S's category.
 40%.
 Okay.
 As a category, 40% are S's.
 25, I's 25, see.
 Still misunderstood.
 But still misunderstood.
 Okay.
 And the S's care so deeply about people.
 Now, the I is absolutely all about people, but the I is also about people for themselves because it tells them how good they are.
 It is their self worth.
 There's value all that.
 Okay.
 The S deeply cares about taking care of people, loving people, supporting people, being loyal to people.
 So so many times the struggles that an S has and usually the stress response for high S is procrastination.
 Is shooting something down.
 Is being really frustrated with solution.
 Change, all of that stuff.
 So change is conflict.
 S changes conflict.
 See changes conflict.
 So a lot of times the way that the S will respond is no.
 Unacceptable.
 Can't do this.
 That's bad.
 You know, let me just tell you that that thing's going to fail all kinds of responses.
 Right?
 When it comes to a stressful situation.
 For the S, the tough thing for the S is they have to start by recognizing this isn't about me.
 The S wants to and all the S is going, well, I know it's not about me.
 It's about the other people.
 No, no, no.
 Your response is always about you when it involves other people.
 Okay.
 Why can't you pick a place to go to dinner?
 Well, because what if the person doesn't like it?
 So what if they don't like it? Well, then I would be a horrible person.
 So the S always is looking, no, no, no, no, it's not about me.
 It's about the other person.
 No.
 It's about how you are going to be if that other person is affected in a negative way.
 So you have to recognize this isn't about me.
 Don't make this about me.
 Instead, focus on, you know, you're not going to be a failure.
 People aren't going to hate you in this process.
 Get to again those prospective gathering questions as fast as you can.
 And then start recognizing how you respond.
 I will tend to shut down an idea.
 I will tend to procrastinate.
 I will tend to tell somebody this thing isn't going to work or it's bad or it's terrible or or or
 and the last thing that a highest tends to do is put in healthy boundaries.
 So in a stressful situation, the S really needs to get to the place of recognizing is somebody
 is somebody's steam rolling over me.
 Is somebody recognizing the weakness in me, which is, you know, and it's not a weakness.
 It's actually a great thing.
 But to them if they can take advantage of it, then it becomes a weakness.
 And that is somebody's steam rolling over me.
 Somebody's setting my reality.
 Somebody's controlling the living crap out of me.
 Somebody's gilting me, you know, for one of the worst things.
 Parents brag about this.
 And they just don't understand it.
 They go, oh, my kid over here, this kid, Johnny, all I have to say is you disappointed me.
 And man, they stop doing that bad thing.
 And it's just great because I don't have to do anything.
 We're sending you over here, my gosh, we got a chase around with a switch.
 You don't recognize, first off don't chase you, kid around with a switch.
 But you don't recognize how internally that impacts a child of you disappointed me.
 And the situation's done.
 There's nothing wrong with being disappointed, but not working through that situation with that child.
 Builds in their life that they're constant disappointments.
 That is the punishment.
 And if the parent being in control of not having to go further and teach and guide and direct and really well and help them to see,
 hey, choices and consequences and help them to make good quality decision making.
 It the parent really convinces them so all they're easy.
 All I got to do is tell them I'm disappointed in man, they just stop doing the thing and they don't ever recognize how much that impacts them.
 Internally.
 So as a high-ess you have to recognize you're not a failure.
 You're not a horrible person.
 Even if this thing is your responsibility.
 If you screwed something up, it's going to be okay.
 Take responsibility, but don't immediately go to, I have affected everybody else in a horrible way.
 Therefore, I must respond with shutting things down, shooting them down, procrastinating whatever because I don't want to compound the problem.
 So perspective is the highest best friend.
 Get to that perspective as fast as possible, recognize how you normally respond in this,
 but make sure that you're saying, okay, what can I do as a decision to make this better?
 What can I do?
 I need some time to process, the S does need time.
 So where we tell the high-high don't isolate yourself from the situation because you're going to just dive into the negative self-talk.
 As we get into the S's and C's, they need that time to process.
 So it's okay to go, do you mind if I have a minute to think about this?
 It's okay to put those boundaries in place.
 If you're talking to a D, the D is going to be no.
 Any of the answer right now?
 Just answer the same.
 Well, you can't give a quality answer, right?
 So instead, can you give me a minute to think about this?
 A lot of times when I'm leading a high-ess or seeing a process, I go, do you need time?
 And the pride side goes, no, I don't need time.
 Okay, then what's the answer?
 I don't know.
 Take some time.
 Just think about this for a minute.
 And they're so not used to that.
 It's amazing when you see their responses, they're just like, okay, I can actually, you know,
 because what do they go to?
 I'm holding everybody up.
 Well, giving a bad answer is not going to help, so take some time and think through this.
 So put some healthy boundaries in place, give yourself time to think, but be proactive,
 high-ess, be proactive on solution.
 Because the thing you want to do is shoot everything down because it's conflict and it's going to affect you in a negative way
 because somebody's going to think that you're a failure, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy
 So the sooner you start practicing that piece, the sooner you can start managing yourself during the stressful time.
 Recognize how other people will respond.
 I may very high-ess.
 If I need time, I'm a very fast thinker because I've practiced this stuff for a very long time.
 But there's times I need time to think.
 And sometimes I'll just go, hey, can you give me a second?
 You've seen me do that.
 There's times I'm processing and somebody will start talking, can you give me a second?
 Or I'll come up and I'll go, are you in that zone?
 That's exactly where are you right now?
 Can we talk or is it going to derail?
 Where are you?
 Exactly.
 Because there are times that, man, I legit need a moment to think about this.
 Give me a second on that.
 This is seven, cross the three over the...
 Okay, here's my answer and then I can move forward.
 If I don't have the time that I know that my response is going to be bad, and that's no point.
 I'm not going to do that.
 Even if I have to shut somebody down and go, I am so sorry.
 I need a moment to think.
 Just give me a second on this.
 I can think, think, think, think, get to the answer.
 Okay, let's move forward.
 So big pieces for the S.
 And no bueno means no good.
 It just does.
 Translation.
 That's good translation.
 We're almost to the end.
 We've got the seas.
 My toes are already crawling under ready to have them stomped upon.
 I just want to say, you know, we're dealing with this...
 We're out of time.
 Sorry, we can't get to the seas.
 The seas would be so happy.
 Oh, my gosh.
 Okay, no.
 We're going to get to it.
 But, you know, we're dealing with the stress effect.
 But a lot of how this is coming out is relational in nature.
 And no doubt, some of, you know, a good bit of the stress that we experience is because of our relationships.
 And then even if it's some other kind of stress that comes in, we display that.
 Or we push that out to relationships.
 And so, of course, we have to talk a lot about relationships all the way through this.
 But so many of the things that we're talking about the skill sets that we're talking about developing are our responses to stress.
 And we're talking about becoming healthy.
 But we should see decision making improve.
 Relationships improve.
 Clare, greater clarity, greater communication.
 All of these things, whether it's inside of a relationship or not, we should see improvement by
 applying these practices.
 Absolutely.
 And we should see less negative self-talk, less self-deprecation, less self-flagulation.
 Because we live a lot of times when we're in these moments, we beat the living crap out of ourselves.
 And we don't, we think it's right because we saw everybody, we see everybody else do it.
 So you become healthier internally because you're able to start moving out on getting the negative crap out faster.
 Yeah.
 And sooner.
 And here's a funny thing.
 When you get there, you'll start to realize how much you don't enjoy stress.
 You'll start to realize that you can actually solve stressful situations ahead of a lot faster.
 You don't have to stay wallowing in the mirror.
 Yeah.
 Get out and move forward.
 We'll start to proactively see when a stressful situation is going to happen and solve the problem.
 One of the things we teach like crazy for leaders is accountability.
 If you will put pieces in place, this will actually solve the stress situations that you live in.
 You know, let's quit putting, I don't want firefighters.
 I want people who can see that a fire is going to start,
 solve it before it ever gets there, put a place, and to make sure that that fire never starts up again.
 But when we live putting out fires, that's all we know.
 When you recognize, you can actually solve these things.
 Then you actually want to move away and be more proactive for not putting out fires.
 So here we are.
 Here we are. The high sea.
 Oh, and really, I mean, again, it's looking forward to this.
 It's no different than anybody else, right?
 It's just a different version.
 Again, we talked about the things that you need to do before you get into it.
 But the negative side, what is the high sea tend to do?
 When stress arises, sees tend to not like people.
 They go to details, they go to logic.
 They will go to, and here's a struggle for the high sea.
 A high sea will shut out a lot of the information that's happening and only pull out pieces.
 Okay, right?
 So you can have a conversation with a high sea that's a, if it's a tough conversation.
 And you're going through five details and they will only pull out one piece and stuck.
 It's stuck on the one piece because it's the one piece that they can relate to.
 It's the one piece that can process, third, the one piece that can spend time on, right?
 So you have to recognize as a high sea that when stress happens, you will tend to get really laser focused on one specific thing,
 or a couple of specific things and then battle like crazy.
 It's your fault that somebody else has faulted.
 It's, you know, here comes a lot of the blame game.
 Well, you did this and all of a sudden this anger towards people comes out from the high sea
 because it's that self protection.
 Let me shift all blame toward a logical piece that has to do with a person.
 I identifying a process or a thing about somebody else and attack attack attack attack attack.
 Because that gives the sea knows that they are out of control and by feeling out of control and knowing that they can't process,
 usually as fast as everybody else, the only thing they know to do is attack the things that they can see as fast as possible on somebody else.
 So again, back to that recognition, right?
 How do I normally respond?
 What do I normally do with this?
 I normally get really frustrated and you can see this sea just, it's like they put on this coat of armor.
 Just nothing's getting through.
 I'm not going to let it happen.
 I'm going to picture myself more like Iron Man.
 You know, it's just that arm of the gun.
 Ding ding ding ding.
 You know, you start firing off your rockets at your hands.
 Yeah.
 That is exactly where you go.
 I must protect.
 Must protect.
 Must protect.
 Let me fire on whatever I can fire on.
 The hell, so a coping mechanism very quickly is I need time to think or healthy boundary.
 Very healthy boundary for a high sea is can we handle one thing at a time?
 Okay.
 One piece.
 I'm sorry.
 You're talking about five things.
 Can we just focus on one piece at a time?
 Because I don't process it.
 And this is very difficult.
 The last thing a high sea wants is to sound stupid.
 The last thing a high sea wants is to sound like they don't have the answer, right?
 They feel inferior if they're in a moment and they sound stupid or don't have the right answer.
 Exactly.
 I always say that my gears, they turn slowly but they grind finally.
 Yes.
 Beautiful way to put it right.
 I really worked on that for years.
 Oh, no.
 But in seriousness, that is really what's happening.
 The gears are turning very slowly and they're going over every little jot and a little.
 So I like that approach that if I will, okay, let's resolve.
 Yes.
 And let's go step by step here.
 That would be very healthy.
 Exactly.
 So it's coping but it's also very healthy.
 So if you don't even get to the healthier pieces, no recognize that you need time and you need to only focus on one piece at a time.
 Because the high sea feels like they cannot push back and go, you're hitting too many things.
 You're going too far.
 That's too much information.
 They don't feel like they can actually press in on that stuff.
 But the problem is is that you're setting yourself up for failure because what happens in the high sea mind, I can't wait to get out of this.
 I really look forward to this conversation being over, right?
 The whole time we've been sitting here, I'm waiting to get through the sea fart.
 Let's wait to get through the sea fart.
 Yeah.
 But the problem is is that you end up leaving without the right information.
 Yeah.
 And you end up spending the next two hours coming up with all the things you could have said in that moment, right?
 George Cassandse moment.
 Exactly. He's always saying in that perfect response after he's had the big.
 I should have confessed.
 Jerry, I should have said this.
 I don't know.
 I'm exactly.
 That's my best cast hands are right there.
 So we, but I lose perspective by doing that.
 You lose immense perspective because you're in keep in mind perspective means nothing more than point of view.
 However, healthy perspective is gaining all points of view.
 It's getting as much point of view as you possibly can.
 I'm sure.
 Exactly.
 You are now laser focused on one perspective.
 Detailed that is not going to help me.
 It not only is it going to not help you, but it's going to get you in trouble down the road.
 Okay.
 Because you'll come back and go, no, you said this.
 And you'll be like, I said that in this context.
 I didn't hear you.
 You didn't say that.
 I don't remember you saying that.
 That's because you only listen to the one detail you focused on that.
 Exactly.
 So healthy, high sea.
 Understand, you don't think fast enough.
 In stress.
 Your gears really slow down.
 You get laser focused trying to be able to control a piece of information that is causing you to not get all the information.
 Okay.
 You don't want to sound, you feel like you're going to lose worth if you sound stupid.
 Don't have the right answer.
 Have the wrong answer.
 That's a huge fear of yours.
 Getting all of these pieces in place and going, you know what?
 None of that's going to help me.
 What does help me?
 Healthy boundaries.
 Okay.
 Being able to breathe.
 Being able to go, guys.
 I need to slow down in this moment right now.
 I need a little bit of time to think.
 I need to focus on one item at a time.
 There's many times because Heather is very high.
 S. High sea.
 There's times where she will ask me information about something.
 And I'll start to speak into it and she'll go to taking notes.
 And I'm like, oh, no, we're discussing this.
 And she's like, I don't want to lose what you're going to say.
 I'm like, don't worry about that.
 Let's have the conversation and then come back to what details you need.
 Because the sea immediately goes to the detail.
 Instead of going, what's the whole conversation?
 And then what's the right detail?
 Because then you'll leave with details and you didn't get the whole conversation.
 So sometimes you have to just stop and it's the toughest thing for a sea.
 No, no, no, no, no, just let me write it all down.
 No, let's get concept and then speak to detail.
 If we can do that, the problem is a lot of times you leave without speaking to detail, right?
 So healthy boundaries any time.
 I need to hit one thing at a time.
 And another thing for not only high seas, but for everybody else to realize is the high sea needs a 30,000 foot view to understand the five foot thing.
 It is.
 I don't know how many times I've worked with somebody.
 And they began spouting information.
 But because I didn't know the context or the greater picture of the 30,000 foot, I didn't have categories to capture all that detail in.
 It is to everybody else this, it's one of the things for these eyes and asses.
 You just got to get it.
 You're not going to fully get it.
 You just got to get it.
 And because I do this for a living, I get it even though I still don't get it.
 That makes sense.
 So what I understand on the high sea brain is, is that you limit your ability to do the thing because you don't understand what the thing is going to do.
 Or how the thing applies to anything because in your brain you're telling yourself, if I don't have the complete picture, I don't know if I'm going to do it right.
 I don't know if I'm going to research the right information.
 I don't know.
 I don't know not having the big picture keeps me from being able to do the thing, which is why so many high seas put things on the back burner, right?
 Where everybody else is like, you want me to do what? Go build the chair.
 Okay.
 Here I go build the chair.
 Hey, it's the wrong color.
 Oh, well you didn't tell me a color.
 It's not even a thought, right?
 The high sea in stress goes to O-Crap before any action can happen.
 I don't have information.
 Right.
 And then starts to pick those pieces apart.
 So for the high sea, recognize the tendency of I need a big picture to understand what's happening in this stressful moment, right?
 If you don't gain perspective on the bigger picture of what's happening, you're only responding to that stressful moment.
 You might discover you are well over responding.
 You are blowing up, you are attacking things and somebody's going, what the crap is your problem dude?
 And you're going, well, I thought this, this, this, no, this.
 Well, you didn't say that.
 You know, that we go to that, well, it's your fault that I didn't get the big perspective.
 So spend time gaining settle down, put breaks on, put healthy boundaries and plays if you, if you need to.
 Don't shut everything down just so that you can think.
 But if you need to, then gain perspective.
 What the crap is going on?
 What's happening? What's the big picture? What is this piece that we're struggling with?
 You know, what's the stress thing here?
 Gain gain gain is much perspective as you possibly can.
 Understand that you, the, the conflict in it makes you want to get out as fast as possible.
 So start telling yourself the truth, leaving this stressful situation doesn't make it better.
 Yeah.
 Solving the stressful situation makes it better.
 Right? And so the sooner I can get to that place of going, okay, be here.
 It's okay to be here. You're not a failure. You're not stupid.
 You don't have to have all the right answers.
 So I want to so forth.
 Now what's the deal? How do we solve this? How do we dig in? How do we make things happen?
 And the other piece is like people, you know, I got to love them.
 But be really good with people because the high sea does not like people.
 Usually in a stressful situation. That's the power where you're like, I don't even need you anymore.
 I just, I can solve everything on my own. I don't need you. You caused me to feel out of control.
 Nobody can cause you to feel out of control. Nobody is making you out of control.
 You're the one who's not putting in the healthy boundaries.
 You're the one who's being laser focused on a detail.
 You're the one who's doing these pieces.
 Tell yourself the truth.
 So you can go, guys, I don't operate wellness. You know, it's like the high D.
 Hey, I'm pissed off right now and that's not a healthy response for me.
 The high I, I'm feeling attacked and I'm pretty positive you're not attacking me,
 but I'm feeling attacked.
 Right. And so I need to get myself in a place. Can you give me one second to get over?
 You know, the high S, hey, I feel like a colossal failure right now.
 And all I want to do is make you happy, which I know is not the best solution.
 So I need a moment to prep. It's the same thing with that high C.
 Guys, right now I don't, you know, I'm not, you know, obviously you're not going to tell people.
 I don't like you right now.
 Right now I need a moment. I need a process. I need to think through.
 Let's walk through this piece by piece.
 Please give me the ability to ask plenty of questions.
 So I can solve this situation.
 And even asking the question, how much time do we have to solve this?
 I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So I've got to solve this.
 So you would respond.
 If I'm looking at you, are you in D or you in C mode?
 What's happening right now?
 How are you normal?
 What would you?
 What's the negative immature response you might be having then I can try and help you
 and lead you?
 Here's where you are.
 Here's where you're struggling.
 And it's all a assumption.
 So you don't tell somebody.
 You don't set somebody at role Brian.
 You're struggling because you're in D mode right now.
 And you're doing this.
 You do not set reality.
 You empathize.
 Hey, what are you experiencing?
 Ask questions.
 So even if you believe you know the truth, there have been times I do this for a living.
 And there's times that I'm like, just keep asking questions and then I'll just, oh, I don't
 even see that part.
 Okay, great.
 Thank you for helping me with that.
 Because I don't assume that I know all the answers.
 That's the part of our acronym MLEA.
 We're on the A.
 We're asking questions both for ourselves, you know, about ourselves.
 So we know where we are.
 But we're leaning into somebody else.
 We're asking what are you experiencing.
 What's going on in your, you know, on that side of it.
 And we're still perspective gathering because only from a place of clarity and perspective
 can we make the right choices and make right decisions.
 Exactly.
 If I will spend that time not assuming I know what you are experiencing, not assuming I know
 what's going on, not assuming I know how you're handling this stressful situation and just
 ask the crazy thing.
 And sometimes I'll leave you say, hey, is it okay if I ask you some questions about this?
 And 99% of the time, 99.5% of the time, people go, yeah, absolutely.
 Hey, how are you experiencing this?
 What are you receiving?
 It was sitting down with my seven year old granddaughter who was experiencing an emotional moment,
 probably about a week and a half ago.
 And just going honey.
 And by the way, this was great.
 My wife gave me some great tips.
 She's like, hey, ask this to her.
 Right.
 And so I said, honey, what are you experiencing in this moment right here?
 And just, you know, without going into details of what she was experiencing, just asking a question
 in sitting there and just not speaking, which is so difficult for most people because I want
 to feel that, you know, that space, that empty air, time lapse that somebody's processed.
 Exactly.
 I want to tell that seven year old what they're experiencing.
 And it was so fabulous to watch or just sit there in process and not say anything.
 And I mean, it went on for probably 30 seconds or so.
 And then she goes, I think this.
 And she was able to process through to a place.
 And it was like, oh my gosh, I just love, I love what we do.
 I have seven year olds can get this.
 I can too.
 Oh my gosh.
 Right.
 Exactly.
 But if I feel the need, I've got to feel the space.
 I've got to tell you what you're doing.
 I've got to tell you what you're experiencing.
 I've got to know what you're doing.
 Then unfortunately, I miss out.
 But if you're also expecting me to respond that way, there's no possible way you're going
 to be vulnerable.
 If you're in Seemode and I'm in high eye attack mode, you know, I'm going to blame you.
 Well, Brian, you're doing what at projecting that on the end.
 I'm projecting, you're not going to say squat.
 You're just looking forward to getting out of this situation.
 Ask a question.
 And you've already hit the end here, which is it's not about you.
 That's not about you.
 Is it not saying again?
 So let's not confuse this with take responsibility.
 I have responsibility.
 We're talking about when I'm leaning to somebody else.
 When I lean in somebody else's direction, it's not about me.
 So leading in isn't trying to drive my point forward to you, Brian.
 I really want to know how you feel about this.
 But do you also see that you did this to me?
 It's not.
 You're focusing on me right now, which gives me the vulnerability and the trust to go, okay,
 he's trying to care for me.
 He's trying to help me, he's trying to lead me.
 So I can receive because I know that you're not trying to make this about you or your
 gender or what you're projecting on me.
 And I have a voice in this, and I can say what I'm feeling, and then you can help light the
 path to where I can get out of that.
 Exactly.
 Or I might buy not making it about me, learn something about me.
 I might learn something about how I'm handling it.
 Oh my gosh, I didn't even realize that.
 I might learn something about you.
 And I'm barreling down in my mind on the things that I'm going to tell you about you.
 And then all of a sudden I discover how did I not think about that.
 Great for days right there.
 I don't remember.
 Gosh, this was years ago.
 I can't remember.
 Can't remember who it was.
 But I can remember the story.
 Gosh, great.
 Now we're going to be crying on the episode here.
 The guy was in an airport.
 And he saw these two kids just running a mock.
 I mean, just two young kids and they were just being little tears.
 That's, and I tears a strong word.
 They're just, they're out of control, right?
 And their father is sitting there, head down and just not doing anything about it.
 And the guy who's watching this is getting frustrated and getting frustrated and getting frustrated
 and getting frustrated.
 The kids are out of control and the parents not doing anything.
 Get your kids in control.
 They're affecting other people.
 They're running around.
 They're, you know, all this stuff.
 And the guy says something to the father about, you know, the kids or something.
 I can't remember what he said.
 You know, screwing up the story, but I've got this.
 I remember this story.
 You're right on track.
 And he says something to the father and the father looks up and he goes, oh, I'm so sorry.
 Yeah, you're right.
 They just lost their mother.
 I just lost my wife.
 And I don't know how to tell them yet.
 Oh my gosh.
 Right.
 A little perspective, low context helps put everything in its right place.
 And then you understand.
 It makes you want to go look herto shut up every time you assume and apply your, you know,
 look at what you're doing to me.
 Look at what your kids are, if you will just stop in a moment.
 Many times in restaurants or something like that, I will look at a waitress or a
 waiter that's having a really bad day.
 And how do we normally respond?
 What the crap is wrong with them?
 Get your act to get a stick up there.
 But I can't believe that they're, you're not going to get a tip.
 That's kind of thing.
 And I'll just go rough day.
 And they'll go, you will not believe I had a guy come in here earlier and did this or I had
 this thing such or, you know, the electricity is out of my apartment.
 I don't have a hook down.
 And all of a sudden, you're backing out of all of these assumptions and crap that you were
 putting on them and just going, how can I help?
 Yeah.
 And so for me, that's what I try to do.
 I try to do this.
 I try to think about what the other person is experiencing.
 Lean in their direction, recognize, they've got responsibility, but recognize, I don't understand
 how they're receiving this, experiencing it, or whatever, and what's affecting them on top
 of this.
 So Brian, if you will just do all the things that we've covered in, and what it is now,
 three hours worth of information, I should have been taking notes.
 That's the whole time.
 Thankfully, we've got this on podcast, so we can go back and listen to it.
 We do, and we actually have this all written down as we put on the blog as well.
 So those are things.
 If I will focus on all of those pieces, so much of it, every, every bit of it.
 These are learn in the software.
 These are tools to employ.
 It is not something you're going to do well right now after listening to these podcasts.
 You must practice.
 You must put it in place, and the more that you do it, you will be blown away at how you
 will start to approach stress, people, situations, family, kids, parents, leaders, the jerk
 that you just ran into on the street, you'll be amazed at how you will start to respond.
 So very helpful.
 Thank you.
 Absolutely.
 Thank you for being on the show and walking through this with me.
 This is, this is great.
 Well, folks, there you have it.
 A lot of information, a lot of helping you to understand how you experienced stress and some
 triggers and some responses that you naturally have because of personality style.
 We did not dig into individual root systems.
 We did not dig into things that you've experienced in your life.
 That would on top of this compound that, that's what next level life is for.
 So folks, let me just say, you need to be in next level life.
 If you've not experienced next level life, you got to get in.
 You got to get in and learn about the things that are creating the decision making in your life.
 About the things that have created the surface level of responses, about the things that have
 created the lives and get the tools to solve that stuff.
 So go to Chrissacurter.com and click on next level life.
 For everybody, you now have a ton of tools that you can start two day.
 You can put in place two day to help you to deal with work through cope, but hopefully get
 to resolution as you're dealing with stress.
 So once again, I want to thank Brian for joining me today.
 My pleasure.
 Hopefully this is help you.
 We want you to take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change
 your life and join us on the next episode.
 (upbeat music)
 [MUSIC PLAYING]