 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCordo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do not who you are.
 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the show folks.
 We hope you are having a fantastic day.
 Today we have got a very special guest on the show, somebody who we have loved to have on the
 Chris LaCordo Show multiple times.
 For those of you that have been to our next level leadership live event, you've gotten
 to see Rabbi Speak there.
 For those of you that follow me from back in the day days.
 Obviously, you've been able to see Rabbi Daniel Lappin who is just a mentor of mine and a
 phenomenal human being.
 So let me just kind of read and tell you about Rabbi Daniel Lappin.
 Rabbi Daniel Lappin is known widely as America's Rabbi.
 He's a noted rabbinic scholar, best selling author and TV host.
 As one of America's most eloquent speakers is ability to extract practical life principles
 from the Bible and transmit them in a life changing and captivating manner has brought thousands of
 Jews and Christians closer to their respective faiths.
 He's pairing his inheritance as a descendant of a multi-generational rabbinic rabbinical family
 and his background in science and business he teaches ancient Jewish wisdom in an unparalleled
 manner.
 All of that sounds fantastic, but let me tell you, getting to my mom wrote it said, "Should
 me?"
 There you go.
 Getting to know Rabbi Daniel Lappin is a phenomenal treat.
 So Rabbi, welcome to the show, my friend.
 Good to be together again with you, Chris.
 It's been a while.
 It has been too long.
 We've got a chance to catch up and talk about, we had a phenomenal trip to Israel and all that kind of stuff.
 And just it's just great catching back up with you.
 You've been on the East Coast now for a gosh how many years?
 Three, four, five years?
 Yeah, about three or four years.
 How is it?
 How are you experiencing it?
 Until the recent drama, we traveled a great deal, so it didn't make a whole lot of difference whether we'd
 traveled out of one place or another.
 But we prefer the West Coast for a variety of reasons, but first of all, most of our families on the East Coast,
 so that was big factor.
 And secondly, you know, California, Oregon and Washington are basically going crazy at the moment.
 And it's just it's hard to be around people who take the leave of their senses.
 So we're more comfortable right now, where we are.
 Well, and that's one of the reasons why we wanted you to be on the show is to talk through this.
 And if there's anybody who is so grounded in what's going on and what's happening in the world,
 I love as you talk about what's happening in the world today on your show and explaining why things are happening.
 And I want to you to come on and give that perspective to folks and kind of here because there's so much fear.
 And we were talking about this in our meeting today about how fear is a gateway to panic.
 And fear is faithlessness in God and it's not trusting in God.
 So there's so much that we as Christians, as Jews could be looking at and freaking out on if we wanted to.
 And a lot of our listeners, we have both. We have a large number of listeners that are Christian and then a percentage of people that would consider themselves atheist or agnostic.
 So we just want to kind of run through all this stuff and get wisdom from you on this.
 So first off, what is going on? What is going on? What is going on in our world?
 Our crazy world right now.
 Well, I want to answer this in a way that will be most helpful to business professionals.
 And I regard you as a business professional if you care about your money period.
 You might be an employee of a national coffee chain.
 And I don't want to mention their name because I don't think their advertising is or sponsored of show. Do they?
 Chris?
 No.
 Well, then their name will remain unspoken.
 But if you're an employee of a national coffee chain, I want you to stop thinking of yourself as an employee and start thinking of yourself being in business for yourself.
 Now right now you have only one customer, namely an unnamed national coffee chain.
 And it's always a little perilous for a company to be dependent on only one customer.
 So you definitely want to be thinking of changing that.
 But you are your own independent professional business person.
 You are an entrepreneur.
 And it doesn't matter where the technically you're an employee or your business owner.
 It's all the same.
 And so addressing anybody who sees himself or herself as a business professional,
 I think it's really important not to get overwhelmed by these events.
 Now you might say, well, it's very easy to say not to be overwhelmed.
 But wait a moment.
 A lot of the overwhelming is in your head.
 The fact is, you're alive.
 I bet you even had breakfast this morning.
 You're functioning.
 Proceed.
 Forward march onwards and upwards.
 It's very easy to become paralyzed by events.
 But be aware that what's happening is in your head, not anywhere else.
 And what I think is so important to keep in mind.
 And is that.
 And again, for folks who are Bible enthusiasts,
 then you know, we have that in common for folks who are not.
 It doesn't matter.
 I once had a conversation with Mario and Grety, the racing driver.
 Very, very valuable from a business point of view.
 I was interviewing from a business point of view.
 Now you might have said, well, what's the point?
 You know, how many clients you have who are racing car drivers, well, not.
 But it doesn't matter because when you learn a timeless principle,
 when you learn anything that is true and applicable,
 it doesn't matter whether it comes from a racing car driver or from the Bible.
 It just doesn't.
 But on this particular point, for me, it's a very critical verse.
 When the Bible says that God put Adam in the garden of Eden.
 Next word is to relax there.
 Now, don't nod that online.
 I was going to say, he said to work.
 Yes.
 That's like where did he go with it?
 He put Adam in the garden of Eden to work.
 And the garden of Eden is essentially your garden of Eden's your life,
 my garden of Eden is my life and the metaphor carries through very effectively.
 So no, they actually,
 they're actually an interesting enough in the Lord's language in Hebrew,
 they actually is no word for relax at all.
 Doesn't exist.
 In the same way, there's no word for adolescent.
 The general principle is words that don't exist in biblical Hebrew are false concepts.
 Adolescent, think about it.
 Adolescent is somebody who wants you to give him all the benefits and advantages of being grown up while retaining all the privileges of being a kid.
 That's what we had to listen to.
 Right now in the world.
 And so yeah, we're not, we don't acknowledge the existence of that.
 Relax. It's not a word.
 It's nothing that should be within the human experience.
 Well, what about when I retire, you might say, no, there's no word for retirement either.
 And I've written extensively and spoken in some of my video lessons about the danger of even thinking in terms of retirement.
 You know, even if you're 25 years old, you're thinking of retiring in the retiring 40 years time,
 even thinking about that.
 Even having it as one of your subconscious goals is actually damaging to your work right now.
 There is no word in Hebrew for retirement either.
 So when will I relax you might ask and the answer is when you did, plenty time then.
 But until then, no.
 So the notion that there were ever smooth, waters and calms sailing for extended periods, it's simply not so.
 There is always something turbulent going on.
 It's not in your life, then in mind.
 If not in your country, then in mind.
 And right now, it so happens that the COVID-19 situation is happening around the world.
 Again, everyone has their own opinion.
 Mine is that the hazard and damage caused by the government reaction is considerably worse than anything the virus itself ever inflicted.
 So, bearing that in mind, and certainly using Jewish ancient Jewish wisdom principles, this is as good a time to expand your business as any other.
 You've just got to be alert to what the meaning of business is, which is, namely, finding a way to provide things that God's other children need or want.
 I'm saluing.
 We were talking about this.
 I, for me, have been coming out of ministry back in the late 90s and everything and you and I have known each other for,
 she is almost 20 years. It's been a long time done events here, events today, all kind of stuff.
 One of the profound pieces is when you and I were talking, it was like 15 years ago or so.
 And you helped me to see that a word in the Bible actually had two meanings.
 Something that we highly teach, especially Christians.
 And we always say, but it doesn't mean this and you're like, nope, it absolutely does mean that that piece sparked something in me all these years that I have been pursuing more that Middle Eastern under that Jewish understand that he break heritage, understanding in the process.
 So it's so important to me that for our listeners that they're hearing the ancient Jewish wisdom because it is so profound in life.
 One of the things that you said recently and I just loved it because we always talk here when we're doing next level life we talk about feelings versus facts,
 or intellect versus emotion.
 And one of the things you said was feelings banish facts. And I absolutely loved you saying that because it is such a powerful way of getting that smack upside the head that so many times like you say,
 it's in my head. I am my feelings are overriding the actual facts in the situation.
 So what advice do you have for living in, you know, with where the world is today?
 Well, yes, feelings do banish facts. And one of the the best pieces of evidence for that, I think something almost everybody knows if I ask you, have you ever known a man who got himself into bad shape because of an ill advised relationship with a woman.
 You know, ever heard of such a thing happening.
 I may have experienced it. You know, it's almost all of us, no at least one man who got involved with a woman that he should not got involved with.
 And if his parents didn't advise him against it, then he's friends did.
 But he went for it anyway. And you only have to ask yourself, what was the operating motivation, facts or feelings?
 Was he open to any of the facts about her? No, he didn't want to know he didn't catch him up. He was operating entirely on his feelings.
 And of course, that is dangerous. And so similarly, when we allow feelings of fear to overwhelm us, and it's very easy and very, very common.
 And again, in the Lord's language in Hebrew, the word fear has an opposite.
 It's very interesting, because what would you think is the opposite of fear?
 Comeness, tranquility? No.
 No, that's just a neutral state. The opposite of fear is pushing forward.
 Okay. So that tells us that the main problem with fear is paralyzing effect. That is what fear does.
 And you know, when I say dear in the headlights, that that look comes from the paralysis that flows from utter fear and terror.
 And that has an effect on each and every one of us. So the opportunities that lie evident within your business, the opportunities and the potential, a very often remains invisible to you because of fear.
 And so I strongly recommend, and everybody I coach has been working on this with Sidiously, which is just you've got to get past this here, the coronavirus.
 You know, it's, I'm not going to take the time in our short conversation now to go into the ways to do that. I cover that in my financial prosperity collection.
 Because there are so many different examples of fear that I knew I had to give a unit on getting rid of it. Sometimes it's health fear, sometimes it's just financial fear just strikes caring to the heart of a business professional and stops are from functioning or stops him from functioning. So very important to stop thinking in terms of feelings but function in terms of facts.
 And if you look at the facts of this thing, you realize you know what, probably not going to get you.
 But really isn't. But again, you don't need me to walk you through that take a little time yourself and focus on facts.
 Benished feeling, don't allow feeling into the conversation, stick strictly to fact.
 Oscar self if this is truly so dangerous. Why is it that protestors were allowed to flunk flock into the street in huge crowds with not a single attempt to monitor their social distancing.
 Obviously, if this is truly a public health crisis, that kind of would have been effective. Then you've got to say, well, if it's not really a public health crisis, why are they doing it?
 And here again, I have two very good answers. I'm not sure I want to give them now something because once again they move into the political arena and there nothing you can't figure out for yourselves.
 Basically follow the money and the power. Just remember that who benefits from all the sphere who benefits and you'll figure out why the government is behaving the way it is over the coronavirus really these are not reasons for us to be
 and paralyzed. The reasons for us to figure out new opportunities, new ways of functioning as I think everybody knows. E. Cobb has a time to meet you directly during the first quarter of 2020 huge climb.
 Right, great opportunity for people who well positioned. If you weren't well positioned, there's some lessons to be learned. Right, this is going to pass. Not good or lost forever.
 When it passes, maybe one of the lessons you have to learn is catch reserves.
 Yeah, I think that's been one of the things that as we've done through the downturn. I'm so proud of our clients and a lot of the people that follow us as well.
 As soon as this happened, we went into let's help our clients out mode. Let's make in the very first thing we hit was the fear piece. We are not going to be fearful in this. We are not we're going to trust in God.
 He has our best interest at heart and we pounded the fear thing very first thing. And then we went into how to start taking a look at take advantage of the situation. You're in how do you make smart decisions.
 What do you do? We went through all of this stuff to help all of our clients and talk to them about this.
 And overwhelmingly, now we had some people that were in industries that the industry shut down completely. And they're like, "There's nothing I can do there."
 But everybody else, we had response after response after response of people going Chris, we've been following this stuff for the longest time.
 It works and so we're good. We're in a good place. And so like when you talk about the cash reserves and making smart decisions in the future, it's amazing.
 One of the things I talked about, I did a show about this probably a couple months ago, how many business owners, how many business leaders have been through two economic downturns.
 And are still not in that place of making smart financial decisions of having those, that's the behind us.
 I don't have to worry about that. Things are going to be great moving forward. Here we are again. And it's painful.
 As somebody who has just an altruistic heart to help to see those that are like, "Nope, we're doing it. We're making the right decisions. We're following the stuff that Rabbi teaches. You know, we got our finances in order.
 And those folks that have been like, "You know, I just didn't think it was going to come back around like this." That's that's so painful in that process.
 This is a unprecedented time.
 I think it is Chris. You'll probably, and I've gone maybe wrong. So I'll definitely hear here what you're saying. But I really don't think it is.
 If different people, different times this happens to be unusual in that it impacts that guy, the other guy, his brother and me, where is that always isn't always true.
 It doesn't matter. The bottom line is, you care about your business, you're right to care about your business. And so, for instance, if you worked for Sears, a job with Sears was a fantastic job.
 If you were any kind of employee all the way up to the C-suite in Sears, you are very, very good shape, right, until the 80s.
 And then all of a sudden, all of a sudden you have the faint, if your ears to the ground. And you are as alert as you ought to be in business.
 All of a sudden you become away away the second. This isn't so good. Well, with frightening rapidity, your employee is dash to the ground and you're a street.
 This was true 5BM in the 90s. And a little bit earlier, even IBM ran the world of computing.
 There was a period IBM was making over 90% of all the profits being made in America in computing.
 And then a college dropout called Bill Gates puts a computer on everybody's desk. And all of a sudden, if you work for IBM, you're in big trouble because IBM drops 40,000 employees.
 And some finally some desk footwork on the part of the guy who they finally brought in to clean up the mess at IBM realized that it totally changed, building massive hardcore frames.
 That's no longer a business that makes sense and that it goes into services and so on and so forth. So there has never been a time of no turbulence.
 I must say I move away from the idea that this is unprecedented. I will go on to this from an epidemiological point of view. It might be unprecedented, although you could even go back 100 years to 1918 from a political point of view.
 Yeah, but every year in politics nothing in politics repeats itself. So, but from a business point of view, I'm sorry, big deal.
 This sort of thing happens all the time in one way or another, in one place or another, impacting one group of people or another.
 Bottom line is the system God designed for human economic interaction is that you have to be constantly obsessed with finding ways to please God's other children. You do that, you'll be fine. That's all you're going to do.
 Absolutely.
 So here's what I was thinking and push back on me on this, that for the family. This is a different situation where we've now got parents working from home. We have parents being teachers. We have, you know, like you say, we're really not seeing different. We've seen top ups and downs and turns and all kinds of crap.
 How do you lead you family? Is it different? Is it not different? Is it the, you know, how do you tell somebody to lead their family during this time right now?
 Well, they're, they're two old English expressions. One of them every cloud has a silver lining and there's another one that says, and ill wins, blows no good.
 And I have spoken, and again, this is anecdotal, but I read a lot. I talked to a lot of people.
 I've got my finger on the pulse of family and finance in the country. And I am absolutely convinced that far more families have benefited from the last few months that have been hurt by it.
 And the vibe of the, you've got the economics tied down. You're basically in survival mode. You're coping, you're managing. If that's the case.
 The odds are that from a family perspective, this has been an eye open to you.
 And there's no families that have had so-called problem children. They've had children on red, uh, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at a, at
 Yes, so by spending the major part of it's waking hours in a gig.
 You know, a gig is a government, a government indoctrination channel that used to be core public schools.
 And may not be for every child. And lots and lots and lots of families certainly lots and lots of parents are rediscovering that they actually like their children, which they weren't thinking that way before.
 They love their children because that's a biological reality, but they didn't like their children.
 And now they're learning to like their children and they're children are nice to people. So that's happening a lot.
 I don't have numbers. I don't mean anyone has numbers, but I have a deep sense based on my own experience and the anecdotal interactions.
 A deep sense that at least if not more families have benefited from the sports togetherness than have been harmed by it.
 I think we helped out our our younger families on the team because the big struggle was how do I work from home.
 Teach my kids love my spouse, give the other things done.
 You know, the work that needs to be done around the house on that and I think one of the things we put in really quickly is, hey, let's let's break up your day and here's how it should look and take the kids out.
 And it's been phenomenal to say it was very painful for a lot of folks, but I think you're spot on.
 It's a myth.
 That's exactly right. The tool is a notebook and a schedule and you work it out, but yes, of course.
 And you know, in business, I'm sure this happened to you, but I've had zoom meetings with vendors and supplies, where kids wander in in the middle or a spouse pops into the screen and says,
 I've just got an urgent question. Oh, yeah, we live in the real world. That's fine.
 That's exactly it. But I think, you know, like you're saying and you teach how important community is and how important that closeness is.
 And I agree. I think you're we're seeing families recognize that they are a greater unit than the gigs.
 You know, the setting your kids to the gig and you know, I love that you call it that.
 Then sending your kids out away from you that being together, which is the way God intended it for us to.
 Be that family unit has been so powerful for them.
 I can also encourage parents to involve their children in the real life world.
 When you pop your children onto the yellow bus to the gig every morning. And then by the time you get back in the afternoon, somebody else has had their best hours. They come home, tired and hungry and grumbly and whiny.
 The values in collocated in the gig are not those of giving and sacrifice, but they're entitlement and taking and rights.
 And so now where you actually have an opportunity to imprint yourself on your children instead of coping with the imprint that is imparted by the gig.
 It's a wonderful opportunity to rebuild your family.
 I know many, many, many families who never would have dreamed of homeschooling.
 I was just going to ask you that question.
 It's a great experience.
 It's a great experience.
 It's a great experience.
 It's a great experience.
 It's a great experience.
 It's a great experience.
 It's a great experience.
 Yeah, did you do homeschooling in public school or we did private school?
 We never used gigs, but we used private schools until our oldest was 10 years old.
 So that's not a lot of school experience.
 Right.
 Then we switched over the homeschooling from then and never went back.
 Yeah, I believe it.
 Yeah, we're not a single one about children ever actually never attended high school or anything like that.
 One of them did a lot of college at home as well.
 He became a physician recently said he didn't do too badly.
 And they all, they all did just fine.
 That's awesome.
 We're big proponents of, you know, also sharing our faith.
 Again, like I say, we have a lot of folks that are listening to this.
 Most would say that they're believers.
 And we have a lot of folks that listen to us and know that we know that they're not believers.
 And we're still going to share our faith.
 We're still going to share a good information.
 Period.
 How do we get more God into our everyday lives?
 And so in the light of what's we're experiencing or in the light of having that family time now.
 What are suggestions that you have for people to get more God into their everyday life?
 I hesitate only because I know we only have another 10 or 15 minutes.
 So so and the question you ask is huge.
 It even would need to have as part of that discussion.
 Should we be doing that?
 Let me explain.
 Let's assume that you're an uncontrollably enthusiastic person.
 Maybe it's a popular musician, maybe it's a classical composer.
 Whether it's the monkey's or Mozart.
 But there's some musician out there that the beach boy is or Beethoven.
 It doesn't matter.
 But whatever it is, there's some musician you are really.
 And if you actually had a choice, one of those questions,
 who would you like to spend the evening having dinner with?
 Well, it would be that person.
 But that's not possible.
 So if you really really feel a desperate desire to be close to that person,
 which is what fan bases are.
 When people go crazy at a concert when they be loved,
 either or star or celebrity walks onto the screen,
 it's because everybody loves him or her.
 And they just want to be close to him or her.
 Well, when you're physically be close to him or her,
 either because they no longer are around because they don't care to have dinner with you.
 Either way, the only way to achieve that,
 and it's a wonderful way to achieve it, because you get pretty close to the real thing,
 is you become absolutely passionately committed to getting to know their work.
 I am an astronaut.
 And so you end up loving the music of the person you love.
 And you love the creator of that music even more,
 because you've got to know his music.
 And you listen to the music and you can talk about the music and you enjoy it.
 And if it's art, you know, if there's particular painter,
 there are people travel across the world to spend a day at North Gallery,
 because it has a particular painting that is a wonderful example of the work of
 that particular artist.
 And they just, they get to know it.
 Well, if you think about male female attraction,
 it's mystery of the human experience.
 And you just dwell for a moment on the
 Infectuation, a man has for a woman and vice-versa,
 you will see that what's really going on here.
 And this is very subconscious.
 This is as true for an atheist.
 I mean, I've had these kinds of conversations.
 There's some very wonderful brilliant atheists.
 One of them is the magician, Panjale.
 Who I start off by getting to know his work very well.
 But then I got to know him as well.
 And I was blessed through that.
 But this conversation is true for everybody.
 And that is on the deepest most subconscious level.
 Our most urgent desire is to get close to God.
 Now, one of the things that's difficult about being an atheist
 is that desire is there.
 And yet it is being intellectually suppressed.
 And it can find no out.
 And by the way, they're difficult as in challenges about being a God-fearing Bible-believing person also.
 Life is what look challenges.
 It's not as if the atheist is unique or anything.
 But his particular challenge is the fact that his soul is calling for a close contact with God.
 And his mind is saying that's impossible.
 And so what all of us do in exactly the same way that the fan of the Beatles or the Beach Boys or the or of anybody,
 that you get to know somebody else. Now, you've known that in the Bible,
 every now and then in place of a specific word for an intimate physical relation to freedom and an award.
 The Bible uses and he knew her.
 Now, a lot of people thought that that's just a polite euphemism because the Bible doesn't want to use, you know, a mobile word.
 So he knew her. But it isn't a euphemism at all.
 The Bible doesn't go in for euphemisms.
 And it is literal.
 In other words, what is the most profound way you can ever get to know,
 God's ultimate hand he worked.
 Now, a lot of this desire is satiated for people who have hiking and mountain climbing and oceans.
 And because you're experiencing huge uplift from interacting closely with the creative output,
 the work of him who you love.
 And so it's very satisfying.
 But God's ultimate work is the human being.
 And so you get to know another human being in a biblical sense that whole thrill,
 that whole desire, that whole deep pleasure that results from that is strictly the context of
 realizing that you are coming close to who he created her.
 So in the same way then, bringing God into one's life, I think it's, and again, you know,
 talking about yourself, your family, your business, their different strategies and techniques for every specific
 situation. And I talk about these.
 But in general, speaking about an awareness of God's work.
 It's just a conversation.
 And we've recommended this for families. We've produced several books that are basically dinner table conversations.
 And so one of the conversations, just to give you an example of what I'm talking about,
 you might say to your children at the dinner table, what is a more beautiful creation of the world?
 A creation of God, a city skyline, or a bird's nest, or for that matter, or what a fool,
 or for that matter, the Grand Canyon.
 And people have been conditioned today to venerate nature and to disparage the work of man.
 And so we have a conversation, really. So you think the Grand Canyon or the waterfall is a greater expression of the creator.
 I don't think so because those things could have happened completely naturally.
 You run enough water down a river long enough, and you'll get a waterfall at my take 10,000 years, but there'll be a waterfall.
 The Grand Canyon will happen.
 I mean, if you put a river in the Sahara desert and come back in a thousand years, there'll be a Grand Canyon there.
 It's very straightforward.
 But a city skyline now, there's something interesting.
 So at least it's a conversation.
 But I think it's always important not to be like the sheriff who puts notches on his gun in the old Western.
 And I don't want to sound calc about this, but I do say it.
 And I say to people all the time, look, I am a Bible believer.
 I don't believe God exists. I know He exists.
 But I've been more used than you have, I would say, to somebody working on this.
 So I've got way beyond belief.
 Believe it's relatively easy.
 Knowledge is different. So I know, but I am not impelled by the desire to be a Christian.
 But I have the desire to make you be where I am.
 If you want to be, if you want to be, I'm happy to help.
 But don't think that I get a kick out of everybody I bring to the Lord.
 I really don't.
 You know, good luck to you in your life.
 I really don't mind.
 And as you do, Chris, I will help and bring what benefits I can to my customers or my clients.
 Regardless of where they are, whether their Muslims or Christians or Jews or nonbelief.
 It doesn't really matter to me.
 Absolutely.
 Our switching gears here a little bit because one of the, you know,
 Was that your first best thing about my first book was America's Real Wall?
 Okay.
 And then so that's how possible was the first book that I actually got.
 I got a special cost experience.
 And yeah, then business seeks to run the Bible.
 And then we did a 10 hour video course called the Financial Prosperity Collection, which by the way,
 48 hours from the time people here to this show, they are able to get it a huge discount by going to my website
 at rabidanyalappin.com and buying the financial prosperity collection.
 And I think that's why they get it as a download.
 You know, by which case you have it tonight or you can have it mail to you.
 And it'll come in in the form of a USB that you plug into your computer.
 But here's the best part.
 If you put in Chris's last name, putting a curdle and get a huge discount for the next 48 hours on that particular product,
 provides a fantastic way of getting through all the basic important critical material and ancient Jewish wisdom on increasing revenue.
 Yeah.
 This is something that, and we're going to put all the links, but if you just go to like rabid said the website, and obviously get the discount, use the code, look at it.
 This is so important.
 I've known this ever since first reading your book.
 You know, I've known this for a long time. Again, almost 20 years now.
 And you talk about this so much.
 So to give perspective to this, one of the things I love that you talk about is the Jewish people are less than, I'm a, I'm a screw, the numbers up, but I'm really close less than 3% of the population, but 74% of the Forbes 400.
 And my close.
 And you've very close. It's actually Jews are one and a half percent of America's population.
 And usually about 40 to 60% of the Forbes 400.
 Okay. And then one of the great things that you shared with me is the amount of GDP by people I'd love free to talk about this.
 The reason why this is so important is because the wisdom in the financial prosperity collection that you have is so powerful.
 And so it's not just beneficial.
 It stinking works. I mean, the stuff that you teach has always worked. It works. It's ancient Jewish wisdom.
 It's the stuff that, you know, you point to over and over again.
 This isn't something that you just came up with and all of a sudden, hey, you have some stats.
 Yeah.
 What was information that has centuries of backing every single time the Jews were in captivity?
 They had, they have come out prosperous. There's so much information.
 But I love the information on how much GDP is created by different nations and stuff.
 So speak to all of that.
 Well, what's so fascinating is that within our homogeneous population, GDP is proportional to the number of people, which makes sense.
 Right? You know, if we were operating within one economy, the more of us that are working, the more is the aggregate total economic value produced.
 So in the United States of America, GDP is on an individual basis.
 In other words, what I'm trying to say is that somebody, you know, an average working California is kind of producing the same economic values as an average working for Monto and Florida.
 Mine affections and these things are not easy to measure, but basically you're operating within the United States of America, basically a homogeneous region.
 So within that region makes sense, Rhode Island has one eighth of the population of Georgia just for instance.
 So if you look at the gross economic creativity of Georgia and Rhode Island, Georgia has an eight times GDP over Rhode Island, which is exactly what you'd expect.
 And Israel is five million Jews. And if you look at the four contiguous nations around Israel, Egypt, Jordan, Syria, Lebanon, there are a hundred million people. So it's 20 times the population and you would expect their GDP in total to be 20 times that of Israel.
 But it's not the same. So that means the average Israeli is outperforming the average Muslim by a factor of 20, 20 times more effective.
 What is that? It's not because it's not because it's not because it's not because it's more intelligent.
 It's not, it's only because he has access to the ancient Jewish wisdom.
 And the proof is that every time this has been made, being made accessible in general to many people, it makes those people more economically effective.
 So in other words, I don't know of a more effective thing. I would rather have 20 tips from ancient Jewish wisdom than a master of business administration from Harvard.
 If my goal is to get a high paying job in a company I'll take the MBA. If my goal is to be independent and make money, I'd rather have 20 tips from ancient Jewish wisdom. There's no question about it.
 And you can see the effectiveness of that in the sense that countries that have adopted these principles are much more effective in countries that haven't.
 You know, one example is Holland and Belgium.
 And Holland's an economic powerhouse Belgium is bureaucratic basket case.
 And there are lots of other examples, North Island and South Island and other examples.
 But the bottom line is that access to this information is life changing when it comes to finance.
 So again, I'm going to say folks, I want you to understand.
 I have done this for decades. I believe this put this in place.
 I've been able to produce considerably more.
 There is such great wisdom. It's not just about cranking out money, obviously.
 There is such great wisdom in how and why and what it does for you and how again, this I have full heartedly believe it's driven me closer to God as well.
 And understanding all this. But if you just take it down to the most basic thing that we're saying.
 That is that there is a process that has benefited Jews around the world by having this wisdom and putting this in place.
 And I don't know how many times we could point to.
 I mean it's every single generation of the Jews. There's been some sort of attack or down turns for them.
 But if you take a look at captivity, just the captivities every single time they've prospered every single time.
 So for you folks listening or watching this, I want you to understand this isn't some ridiculous piece of information on how you're going to go gain the stock market and make tons of it.
 This is stuff that will change the way you look at your finances forever and it will impact the way you handle your finances.
 Also make you see opportunities things you could do. And as we I have to leave now we've got to end but but next time we get together we should really talk more also about why these things do work.
 In other words, does God really want people to be rich? Is that it doesn't God have more important things on his mind?
 In other words, how you think about the ultimate issues of life really does impact how you live that life and that's true in the family areas, true in the finance area.
 And why it is that God does care about your money as you should.
 And that is all part of the story, but at any rate Chris, I really appreciate the chance to talk to you again.
 And I have the same heart to bring the same benefits to as many people as we possibly can and it's an honor and a privilege to to stand shoulder to shoulder with you in this work.
 Thank you. It is so great to have you on and again I want to make sure everybody knows go to rubidenialappin.com.
 The financial prosperity collection plugin, Lakrto get your discount and this will change your life.
 Rabbi thinks again, I appreciate it. We will have you on again soon. There's so much stuff that we need to discuss, but thanks again for doing this.
 Great to see you. Same here. Same here. I appreciate it. And I look forward to end some of this craziness actually will allow us to meet again in person.
 Amen. Well, folks, there you have it. What a powerful discussion, powerful interview.
 I hope that you have enjoyed this as much as I have.
 Obviously, if you guys like this, let us know we want to have Rabbi and again in the future.
 But man, do not miss out. I know I'm going to say it again. Go to his website, Rabbidenialappin.com,
 financial prosperity collection in plug-in, Lakrto into the program and get this thing.
 Start moving on this. Make this happen. This is something that I've done for a very long time and it has been powerful in my life.
 I'm stressing this because I know some of you are going, oh, I know this stuff. No, you don't.
 If you've not done his specific stuff, I'm telling you you're missing out. And right now is the time to get this going.
 As we are looking at a difficult time and a financial time in our country and all that, having this wisdom has given me so much greater security and so much greater ability and so much greater opportunity as well in my life and my business everywhere.
 So I can't say it enough, make sure that you get the financial prosperity collection.
 Well again, hopefully this is helped you. We hope that you take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]