 Welcome to the show folks. Today we are talking about leading the countercultural
 family. So what does that mean? We're talking about take a look at the culture
 that you're seeing right now around you, maybe in our country, around the world,
 and do you want to lead that direction or do you want to go against that? Well,
 we tend to believe around here. There's a lot of stuff that we want to do
 against the actual culture that we're seeing in the world today. And joining me today
 is something that a countercultural dude just varies. Just known for that.
 Don't forget our cultural is Jill Forger. Welcome to the show. I'm so glad to be back on.
 So good to have you here as we talk through something that we get to experience
 all the time of helping people to set up their families in a countercultural way.
 And we're not talking about everything. We're not talking about going against all
 things cultural. We're talking about like rising up and overthrew in the
 government. That's not what we're kidding. That's not the goal of the podcast.
 Everybody go by their guns and they're either we're going to go, no, that's not
 we're talking about not at all. We're talking about safeguarding your family over
 things that you don't want to have happen. What you don't want your family to
 look like. And for some people they come from phenomenal parenting and
 they're trying to parent their kids as well as their parents did. But things
 have changed. Times have changed. There's all kinds of craziness going on. There's
 so many things that we see that is affecting our kids in a negative way. We're going to
 talk through a bunch of that stuff. So yeah, and I look forward to getting into this
 because it's like especially in next-level life. A lot of what we teach is counter
 cultural and whether it's faith of just being believers and Christians that it
 is counter cultural or it's a, it's we grow up especially in the West in a culture
 that is very self-focused. And what do we teach at the heart of what we teach is
 really it's selflessness and dying to self. Well my gosh, that's a big right
 turn in life. And we grow up in this culture and we're trying to do that. We have to
 learn new ways and establish new habits. So how does that show up in our family?
 How does that show up as leading that? So I'll look forward to getting into all that today.
 One of the things we see so much of nowadays, it's just it is on the rise and that is
 victim mentality. It is massive nowadays. It is it is incredible how everything is
 happening to me. We see it everywhere. We see it preached. There's a lot of people
 out there. There's even thought leaders that are making money like crazy hand over fist
 teaching people that their victims. I can relate to you. Everything bad is happening to you.
 You don't deserve this. You deserve to take care of you. You should be, you know, I literally
 heard somebody who's actually got a pretty decent following say the best thing you can do
 to help out the world is to love yourself really well. And it was in the context of you
 focus all on you, you take care of you. It's all you, you, you sounds great. It's really
 ways really well to a crowd. Totally absolutely. It plays well. Here's the thing. Guys,
 there may be a lot of very challenging touch type of things that we're going to talk about
 today that are very difficult to swallow. But we get together and talk Chris and it gets really
 real. But it plays well when you're a little too focused on yourself. That's when it plays
 well. And it sounds really good when you are focused on you. Well, when we look at families
 and we look at what destroys families, our selfishness is at the core. Our desires,
 what do I want becoming victims to one another, contributing to conflict or just wanting to blame
 the other person and take no responsibility. So we can quickly see how dangerous these messages
 can become. Yeah. It is something that the more selfish we become, the more focused on ourselves
 that we become, the more victim, you know, the more victim mentality that we have, the more it
 affects every aspect of our relationships, of our family, of our parenting. And it becomes something
 that becomes, it gets out of control. And all we hear, especially in a lot of the culture today,
 is it's okay, you deserve better than this and you should focus on you. So we are going to
 dive into a lot more of that when we come back right after this.
. Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Our folks were back and we're talking about what it looks like to lead a countercultural family.
 So let's jump in. Yeah. Let's dive in here. So at the heart of this Chris, it's like
 share a little bit about like what we teach your perspective on when you're leading a countercultural
 family. Where does that start? If I'm a leader, I'm a husband, I'm a father, I'm a mother.
 Where does it start? How do I even do that? Yeah. So for us, what we teach a lot around here is what we
 would call the relationship circles. If we're going to lead a family well, if we're going to lead our kids,
 our spouse to any great closeness or responsibility or whatever, if we want the best that we can have
 in our family, then we have to set right priorities. And one of the things that we teach is what we call
 the relationships circles. And if you look at Ephesians, God lays out what looks to be the most important
 relationships, a big section on him, put me first. Seek me. We see it all through the Bible,
 seek the kingdom of heaven, seek God, seek righteousness, seek these things, everything else will be
 taking care of in this process. Everything you need, Jesus talks about how if you will seek the
 kingdom and you will seek righteousness, then God will, you'll obey the Father will give you everything that you need.
 So for us, we make the inner circle that relationship with God. For me and I know for you as well,
 in so many of our folks here, God has to be more important than anything else. More important than
 the family. More important in friends than money than stuff than anything. The relationship,
 when I thought that I had God as my most important thing for a huge portion of my life, only to discover
 I was wrong. And I have set for the last gosh, I don't know how many years I have made sure that I was
 making him the most important thing. To the point that everybody who knows me, everybody around me is
 is clearly like, hey, the most important thing in Chris's life is definitely got, I love my wife,
 I love my family, I love my friends, I love this business, I love all, I have a great life. Even with
 junk that happens and bad stuff that goes on and all that kind of crap, I have a fantastic life.
 And I believe it's because that inner circle is that first relationship, I focus on that relationship with God
 heavily. The amount of time I spend, the amount of time we spend in prayer and God's word and
 research and all that kind of fun stuff. The amount of time we spend with our ecclesia as we continue to
 grow together all that. The second thing, the second circle is God lays this out and Ephesians,
 the second most important relationship is that spouse. Your spouse needs to be the most important
 human being on the planet period. Nobody more important than that spouse. Now, we see this a lot
 from time to time and it's really sad and in some situations it's really kind of disgusting where you will see
 one parent put the kids before the other spouse. You can hear the comment from time to time.
 Oh, he knows where he stands or even vice versa. I gotta say that's one of the most damaging and
 distracting things to any marriage. There's a great way of looking at these relationships circles. If you
 ever want to show the person inside of a circle that they don't matter, show them that somebody outside
 of their circle is either in their circle or before them. And so if the kids come before me,
 then I'm just not that important. And if I'm showing my spouse that the kids come first and
 again, if we take a look at who the most important relationship, we show we show God all the time that
 everything else is more important than he is, right? So that focus on that spouse being the next thing
 is vitally important because your kids are going to grow up and they're going to leave. And for a lot of
 parents, we've seen this through next level of life over and over again, a lot of parents, their worth
 is in being a parent. So they will follow their kids around. They'll be a part of it. They will,
 you know, if they're child married, they're adult, child married, somebody that they don't like,
 then they will try and sabotage that relationship and it just becomes incredibly destructive.
 It can't be that way. You have to show your kids one of the most powerful things and I love
 there's no doubt when I look at my God children as they as they see you and Mary Beth interacting.
 There's no doubt to them that they are incredibly loved by the parents, but that you guys love
 each other immensely well. You guys are a unified team that you are a great couple in the process.
 The kids know you guys come first in each other's lives and then the kids. That's crazy powerful.
 Because what we want to do and what we're going to talk about in a little bit is setting up that
 decision making process, we want our kids to grow up and look for that partner to look for that healthy
 relationship, to look for that person that becomes the most important human being in their life.
 Instead of just picking somebody because they looked good or they had money or whatever the
 ridiculous thing is. We want to make sure that we have that part right. So God, spouse, kids,
 here's the funny thing. The next thing is that work relationship, that employer, employee,
 relationship. It's not your best friends, which praise God, I get to work with a lot of my best friends.
 It's not extended family. It's not anything else. It's not, you know, the people you play golf with on a
 weekend. God puts the next thing and this is the Bible according to Chris, that relationship that puts
 the food on your table. The team is who puts the food on my table. Now we always talk about here,
 the client is who puts the food on our table. But again, if I don't have a team that's actually
 serving the client like crazy, then it never makes it to our table anyways or it only limits it
 amount, right? But I'm also the one who puts the food on the table of the team as well. And I think God is
 pointing to how important that is. We live in a culture now where people hate their bosses.
 If it is a boss, not a leader, then there's probably a good reason. But people don't respect their
 leadership. They don't respect the fact that somebody's paying them and taking care of. They feel like
 if they're breathing they deserve. So that's the first place we start is with that, you know,
 getting your priorities straight on those relationships. Yeah, absolutely. So without alone,
 what's a, when you look at this, what's another really tangible example of, let's say a father
 who is putting his wife, his spouse, above his relationship with God. How does that play out?
 So it's such a great question. You should answer this as well.
 Whenever we put a human being, it doesn't matter whatever we put before God. Whenever we put something
 before God, what we're saying is this thing is more valuable to me or I get more worth from this
 thing than from God. It's very difficult for a lot of people to, you know, they may not have been raised
 or taught on how to have that relationship with God and what it looks like to see the kingdom of heaven,
 what it looks like to see righteousness. And so what tends to happen is that they don't feel that
 tangible relationship with God. So they go to the next best thing, whatever is feeding their worth
 like crazy. If it's a spouse, then everything you do with that spouse is going to point to whether
 or not you're getting worth or not losing worth. So instead of getting your worth from God, that relationship
 with God, making sure that's solid, then I tend to start looking for does my spouse think I'm good enough.
 Does my spouse think I'm worthy enough? If I don't feel good, if I don't feel like I'm getting a lot of
 worth in the day that I might go and stir up some crap, you know, I might make some things happen to try and
 get my wife's attention and get her to think that, you know, tell me that I'm a good person or tell
 me that I'm worth something. So it affects that relationship with God because you're not getting
 your worth from the only sustainable place you can possibly get it from and that's the King of the
 Universe instead you're getting it from that spouse and guess what, they're human being.
 And so what are they dealing with the worth struggles and what are they experiencing jacked up stuff?
 So it really affects how you approach the spouse instead of a loving solid, hey, we're there for each other.
 You know, when my wife is struggling on their for strength, when I'm struggling, she's there for strength.
 And I know you guys have experienced that you guys have been married for 10 years.
 Over 10 years. Over 10 years. What's it look like for you guys?
 So you know, in 10 years, it's changed a lot, but I'll tell you in your 10 and it's a whole lot different.
 Because of growth and what, especially in just life and every single area, but I'll tell you as
 the spiritual leader of our home, which my wife will say, I want you to be this spiritual leader of our
 home and I step up to that. But you know, I was telling a young man, hey, no, if you're listening,
 brother, who came by earlier to have lunch with me, I told him that 10 years ago,
 that there was this season in my life where God, I felt like I was being pushed from behind.
 And it was unexplainable. It wasn't just this, along deciding to get my toes in the water of various
 things in my life. It felt like I was being pushed from behind. And I knew it was God and one of the
 many things that he shared with me that summer was I want you to be, I want you to stop being afraid to talk about me.
 And I didn't know what it meant. I didn't know all that it entailed. But I look at where I'm
 out in life today. And a lot of people would not know me as a person who was afraid to talk about the
 Lord. Yeah. Because my worth came from people. Well, now I'm out of place where because my worth
 is so much in him. And I don't have the insecurities that I used to have or the fears as much as I used to have
 that I'm able to lead Mary Beth in places and lead her and lead the family into decisions
 because I'm not worried about her judgment. I'm not worried about her approval. I'm not worried
 about rejection from her that I'm able to lead her and I've learned how to lead my family
 in the last year alone in our life. They might have changed that we've had because I'm pursuing the
 Lord. I'm focusing on what does he desire of me and our household? And that's become the word,
 the buzz word of what we're doing here is really right now. We're talking about his priorities. He's
 become the priority. So I'm focused on coming from a place of Joel. What are you learning from God?
 Now, lead this into your family to create this change. Don't force it. Don't ram stuff home.
 Lead. Exactly. Get Mary Beth's buy in and then lead the kids to understand it and we've
 had a lot through a lot of change and I have a wife who's very she's ISC and so she goes to a place where
 it's like, whoa, that's a lot of change and she's a trooper but it's I lead her according to who she is
 and we stay in lockstep throughout the process. I think so men, yes, I'm speaking to you right now.
 If you're watching this, I'm staring at you for a reason. Christian men, now we have a lot of
 folks that follow the show that are not believers. We would love to talk to you about that but we're
 glad that you stick with us and you follow us and you receive this information and you utilize this
 as much as you possibly can. I'm speaking to you Christian men right now. There is a few jacked up
 concepts when it comes to being the spiritual head of the house. There is the extreme concept which is
 how you tell people what to do. Your decision is the final decision. That's just the way that it is.
 You need to go back and see how Jesus treated women. You need to go back and see how how our God
 actually responded to women. You will find pretty darn quickly that that's not what that means.
 Here's what I'll tell you. This is God according to Chris. It is our job as the husbands
 to be the spiritual head of the household. Here's what that means. It is your job to make sure
 your family has a phenomenal relationship with God. It's your responsibility. We're going to stand
 before God and he's going to say, "Hey, what you do with what I gave you, right? It's our responsibility
 to make sure that not as you said. It's not ramming it down. It's not telling people you're going to
 do this. It's not forcing this stuff. It is actually me stepping back going, "How do I lead my spouse,
 my kids to this relationship?" I'm going to say a lot of you guys out there that are listening
 to this right now. You might be going, "But my wife has a better relationship with God than I do."
 So I'll just let her lead this stuff. Okay, I get it. I understand. That has happened a lot nowadays.
 Why? Because we live in this jacked-up Western Christian culture that says you're supposed to go
 right up you and listen to somebody speak at you. That's not the way that Jesus set up the first
 century church. You are supposed to be responsible. The ministry came out of the home.
 You're supposed to be responsible for what that ministry looks like, what that relationship looks like,
 what the time spent with God looks like. So as you're hearing Joel talk about this,
 that is our responsibility. Take it, grab hold of it. It's not a, I'm going to go shove this stuff
 down my family's throat. It's a man. I need to care greatly that my family has the greatest
 relationship. Because once again, there's going to be time when those kids leave.
 Are you going to prepare them and raise them up in the ways of the Lord so that when they do leave,
 it doesn't depart? Or are you going to hope for the best and you know, send them on their way?
 So powerful stuff. I think as you talk about that, we, it's like I want to hit these.
 Okay, so why is this counter cultural? I'll say the more that I lead my family into a more
 loving and obedient relationship to God, the more counter cultural I feel. I feel a separation from the world,
 which is starting to really finally in my life makes sense of like what it means to live in this
 world, not of this world. Because we're moving in a counter cultural direction and I'll tell you that
 the blessings, the reward, the feeling that's coming with that of knowing our obedience is
 climbing as the leader of the home. There is a satisfaction and a fulfillment of that of coming from a place
 of pleasing the Lord and being obedient to him. This is counter cultural. Yeah, absolutely.
 I think the fear that so many people experience in there is dirty door. Go with 200 times.
 Is the as I do become moral, be deent and following God the way that he wants me to. We're not talking
 salvation is not based on your obedience. It's based on what Jesus did on the cross and the faith
 in the continued faith. The word actually translated is believe in not believe, Ed,
 and continuing to do so. But God is very clear over and over and over again. You do what I tell you to
 do. You follow me. You got two choices. If you disobey and teach others to do so, you'll be considered
 least in the kingdom of heaven. If you obey and teach others to do so, you'll be considered
 great in the kingdom of heaven. We have this message that teaches people, "No, no, no,
 you don't need to be obedient to God. You just have to say your ABC is admit that you're a sinner
 believe that he died for your sins and calling him to be Lord of your life. That's it. Go on your way.
 That's it. You're golden. Everything's fine. And that is not how Jesus led people to
 understanding the kingdom of heaven and seeking the kingdom of heaven. So, it's powerful. Let's go
 it. Let's go a step deeper into this. Let me also jump and I think one of the great things about this
 is that fear part is you start to think that it's going to separate a lot of people away from you.
 And I think it's interesting. We've seen for years and years and years, is that it actually draws people
 to the, "Hey, help me to know what you know." Yeah, it's interesting because it's a
 and this is the thing about love about how we're talking about this all from a countercultural lens
 is, well first, the fear part overwhelmingly comes from a, from man. What are people going to say?
 What are they going to think? When we make this very bold move in our life that we absolutely can
 back up biblically, but it sure doesn't look like US culture in terms of doing that. And so what are
 people going to think that automatically is like, "Okay, I'm putting people in ahead of God."
 And it starts to really be like, "Wow, okay, I'm really experiencing more of what I see in God's
 word. This is really interesting that I'm feeling it and it's playing out in my life."
 But let's go to this next piece and going down the wrong, if you will, as we look at decision-making,
 we've got relationships circles in place and from relationships circles shaping priorities in life,
 we then go to values that values come out of that. Could you speak to that a little bit?
 Yeah, as we talk about with business, it's the same thing with the family. Everybody needs to
 make a decision on what are the core value. So if we're speaking to leaders and business owners and all that
 kind of stuff, we would tell, and obviously a lot more than this, but I'm going to summarize it very
 quickly, you need to sit down and define what is the most valuable things to you in your business.
 And even if you don't have it right now, if your culture doesn't walk that direction,
 how do you get there? It's the same thing in your family. So with us, our number one core value
 inside of the point main group is, God, God, no ifsans are buts about it. God is number one. He will
 always be number one. It's the most important thing. It's the greatest value to us. Why? He owns us.
 He owns the business. He owns everything in this place. He owns our destiny. He owns our eternity.
 He owns us. Number one. Number two is Grace. Grace. And our definition of that is,
 we've been given so much grace. We must give grace. So top two things are God and then grace. You have to
 look at your family and ask yourself the question, what are the things that I want us to value most?
 Now this isn't just an individual thing. We sit down together as a spouse, husband and wife,
 and husband. And we make decisions. What do we want to value the most? What do we want to be the most important
 core values of our family? And for those that are believers, if God is not at the top, here's the
 funny thing. We've done this for so many years and every now and then we'll do the core values inside of
 somebody's individual life and God usually lands about four or five. As they're talking through and
 as we're walking them through a process, God lands down there in that four or five spot and then they just
 kind of sit there and they look at it and they go, "Huh, interesting. God's not number one." It's like
 right. And what are the areas you're struggling with? And what are the things you're experiencing? And you
 will start to see that the thing that they value most also tends to be the thing that's causing
 the greatest problems. Because if I value money, people work, stuff, whatever that thing is, then I'm not
 getting fulfilled. I'm not getting my worth from it. I'm having problems. I'm having issues. And even though
 I might even have really good admirable values lined up. It might not be bad stuff. It might be really
 good stuff. But when God comes down to four or five, it really speaks to why I'm struggling in
 some of the areas. So as you just kind of point it out, this countercultural thing where I'm wanting a
 greater relationship with God, but I'm afraid how it's going to affect other people, I guess what?
 As long as people are more important than God, I can't keep asking the question why I keep struggling
 so much. It doesn't mean that when you have a great relationship with God, that problems go away.
 Oh my gosh, we deal with all kinds of big stuff. We just handle it differently, right? But we will
 see person after person who is like, I've got all these problems in my life and I don't know how to fix it
 and my parents can't fix it and my counselor can't fix it and this situation didn't fix it and so
 and so on and like, okay, well let's take a look at the God aspect. No, no, I'm good with that.
 Okay, well if there's anybody who can fix it, who is it? Well, yeah, sure, absolutely. I know that.
 But how do I solve these things? Well, you don't. You got to get your priorities right.
 And so as we look at those values, you have to make decisions what needs to be the number one most important
 thing. If God's not number one, it's not, and it's okay to say that he's not. It's okay to say
 currently right now in our family. God's not number one. How do we get him there? What are we going
 to do to get him to the top of the list? Then what's number two? What's the next thing that needs
 to be a great value in our family? Is it? Is the marriage the number two thing? Is it?
 You know, family time? Is it? What is that list of things that's going to drive you to the greatest
 success because you have your values in a right order? Yeah, and I love this because this is
 it's really helping families make decisions because we make decisions based on our values. It's
 like it's like even back in the day of days. I remember you guys used to say it's like you want to know
 where your values are. Check your checking accounts. Go look. That's where you're going to see what you
 really value. You can see what your priorities have been. If I have your day planner and your checkbook.
 Exactly. And so we really see this in our life. So when we really check our life, we see, man,
 am I making decisions in alignment with my values? Are my values informing my decisions?
 This seems to be like an all-things God podcast shaping up to be unexpectedly, but when it comes back
 to you, I think when we look to why did God give tour, why did he give laws and commandments? Just go with
 the 10 commandments because we're meant to know them. We're meant to talk about them when we walk along
 the road where we should put them on the gate. We should put them on the door post. Why? Because they
 remind us, oh yeah, I should do those. Oh yeah, I should focus on those. Why? Because I love the Lord.
 Yeah. Values do the same things for people. They remind me this is how I go about making decisions.
 That's what I love about this piece of the conversation. Is that it's really a helping people decide,
 how do I make these decisions? When it comes to end, Chris, how do I do this? Joel, how do I do that?
 Well, it comes down to what's informing your decisions. How do you prioritize what's in your life?
 Right. And if you have a good set of values and you run your decision, make it the same thing we
 would teach leaders. Same thing we would teach business owners. Take your mission. What is your purpose
 for existence as a company? What is our mission statement? Worshiping God by loving children and
 Godding individuals and organizations to greater perspective. We have people all the time say you change
 my life. And our response is always, we got you to the right perspective. You chose to change. You're the
 one who went after the change. And so that is how we look at things. Everything runs through that funnel.
 Then we take a look at our core values. Everything runs through that as a funnel. So if you're making
 family decisions on, do we go by a houseboat? Do we go by an RV? Do we go spend money on
 17 four wheelers? Whatever that you do. We go into debt. Do we go to do the home that we've always
 wanted. Do we do these things so that we have everything that we need for retirement so that we can go
 and do it's all decision making. Do we put our kids in four or five activities every single week?
 Where family time is now one parent has one kid going one direction with fast food. The other parent
 has the other kid going another direction with fast food. And we see each other at 10 o'clock at night.
 We're trying to do that. Bam, which I personally love. You would be happy with that. That would be
 so you and general so would be pretty happy with that. I'm a military man. That end of the evening.
 So all right, so we're going to dig into more stuff. We're going to talk about one of the most powerful
 things. I'm just going to leave it at that. We're just going to leave it at, we're going to
 tease it. We're going to tease it with. We're going to hit one of the most powerful pieces of this when
 we come back right after this. Next level. Life is our two-day
 personal discovery experience. It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you through a
 process to help you discover your root system. To get unstuck in life and to discover what's holding
 you back from freedom and peace. Imagine this. What if you could wake up every morning with a
 clear purpose? What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict? Where would
 you be in a few months, a year, five years, if you had clarity, purpose, and peace? Probably a big difference
 for more you stand today. Now I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself,
 is there more? There is and there is a better way. And it starts with the next level life. You can go to
 Chrissacorda.com/discover to take the next step. Now if you're struggling with this contentment,
 regret, or not feeling good enough, which most of you are, if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships
 are lacking, don't keep going through the same motions every single day. Learn how to move past
 the things robbing you of peace. Go to Chrissacorda.com/discover and take the next step.
 All right folks, we are back and we are answering the question, am I screwing up my kids?
 No way, that's not it. Yes, yes. Welcome to the Chrissacorda show where you're guaranteed to listen and
 leave feeling bad. I love this show. Such good stuff. I feel so when worthy.
 We are actually answering the question, how not to screw up your kids? So we're talking about leading
 a countercultural family. We just talked about setting values and making sure that you are setting great
 values. Even if you're not, even if your values aren't prioritized well, what should the greatest
 values be? What should that priority be? And one thing I wanted to share is what as Jesus talks
 on Matthew 2323 and he's pointing out to the religious law teachers. He says this, "You
 tithe, mint, and dill in cumin and have neglected the way to your matters of the law. Justus,
 mercy, and faithfulness." So I think it's a very powerful thing for us to see.
 Jesus is pointing out, you know, what is the tie? The tie you give, you honor God, you show him
 that he's blessed you. And he points out, you even tithe of your mint. Yeah, you tithe these first fruit.
 You tithe everything even down to your herbs, the small teeny tiny things, and you missed the
 way to your, this is God himself saying, you missed the way to your things. What are those what
 your things? Justus, mercy, and faith. Powerful, right? So what should values be in my family? Well,
 there's three that God tells me I should have. Mint and cumin. Mint and cumin. And dill.
 So I love all those. All those are great. Those are great. Right now you see, but you see the
 chasm that's between those camps of information of what he's pointing out there, but it comes back
 to again, who's most important is that your kids is a God, is it your, is it your people you work with?
 Is it your herb garden? But he's making these distinctions because he's driving people toward
 healthier decision making based on what values like we just talked about. So so far, we've talked about
 relationships circles as it relates to priorities, as it relates to values in life. So now let's just
 hit decision making. Get into decision making as it really, really hit this on the nose is when you take
 all of that, how does that, how do people take that and use it to guide decision making in their life,
 especially in the context of leading a countercultural family? Yeah. So this is one of the big
 pieces that we teach in next level of life because we see a lot of folks come from not great decision
 making teaching. It doesn't mean that they don't like their parents. It doesn't mean that they have
 band relationships, but we learn from those who teach us. So we as business leaders, teaching other
 leaders, how to lead their teams and stuff, we have learned how to do this really well. We've learned
 what works really well. We've learned to teach the things that are going to change the way that
 a team operates, change unity, all that kind of stuff. It's the same thing inside of a family unit. If I've
 not been taught how to have great decision making, then whatever is teaching my decision making is the thing
 that I'm going to follow. So right now, this is probably one of the most powerful things is to take a
 look at how the culture is telling people to make decisions. Your colossal victim. You deserve
 deserve deserve. Everybody should be taking care of you. Look up all the things you do to add to humanity.
 Totally selfish. Totally self-centered. Totally victim mentality. Don't take responsibility. It's
 always somebody else's fault. Blame somebody else's fastest you possibly can. Be self-protective
 and defensive. All of this crap. And what it teaches is I should follow that culture. And we teach
 something considerably different. Very countercultural. And you've done this forever with the kids. We teach
 choices and consequences. This is an old, old, old, old, old, old, age are function. Believe it
 or not, from decades ago, which is fantastic. We've been teaching this for decades. That you teach
 somebody that their choices are leading to the consequences. Now, every time I say this, I have to drive
 on the point. I know you do too. I have to drive on the point that you must use the term choice.
 There's a lot of people say what you did. I do that. I do that. That's what you're going to do. We
 do. Oh, I do that. We cover that. Yeah. And it's like, hold on a second. So do you say this?
 Well, I don't exactly say it that way. So do you point to the, well, I don't exactly do. And it
 comes up, okay, no, I actually don't really do that. You have to teach that, and this, I don't care if
 it's your kids, your team members, your spouse, take caution. But you don't care. Remember,
 you are equals in this process, but it's still the same concept, right? If you choose to do this,
 you're choosing this consequence, right? So if you use the choose chose chosen, why did you choose to
 do that? You do realize that you chose your own consequence. You know, so what we teach is we use like
 the most basic thing. You make some cookies. You tell your kid, you know, it's Tuesday night.
 Cookies are probably going to be still by Friday. But anyways, hey, don't touch those. Don't get into the
 jar. If you don't touch those, then on Friday night, we're going to have some cookies and we're
 going to go to frozen 17. And when you get to Thursday and you see that at some cookies are gone,
 what tends to happen is we have, we feel like we have to be horrible people. I can't believe you did this.
 I told you not to do this. Why did you get in there? Look, you know, you're in trouble and we lose our minds,
 because we as adults, grown human beings, are now considerably out of control because a five-year-old
 won against what we said, right? Leaders carry that over into your leadership when you're dealing with
 adults who are responding as five-year-olds, right? They're out of control. So you're out of control.
 The great thing is you don't have to be the bad person because you already know that there is a choice
 and if you understand that choices and consequences when revealed lead to decision-making,
 then you might be the parent who's smart enough to go, "Hey, I actually hope they make a bad decision."
 Because I can teach them now what bad decision-making looks like. So when that child takes those cookies,
 you go, "Ah, buddy, I hate that you did that. You chose your consequence and what was your consequence?
 You don't get to go to the movies with us." So we're still going to go see frozen 17,
 but you're going to stay home. We're going to get a babysitter and now you get no more cookies,
 and you don't get to watch any TV and you don't get to, you know, you're basically in baby jail.
 So, you know, because you chose the consequence and if that child starts to respond,
 "Well, that's not for it." No, no, no, no, no, no, hold on. Don't get mad at me.
 You made the decision. Next time, don't choose that. Now that's the most basic form of saying
 choices and consequences. But here's the great thing. The more that I put that in place,
 whether it's a child, whether it's a team member, doesn't matter who, whether it's a client who's
 coming in. You know, we have plenty of times when we're talking to a client who's asking a legit
 man, "Do I do this or not do this?" And the question is, "What's the consequence if you do?"
 Oh crap, yeah, no, that's not good. Right. Because it teaches, I make a bad decision.
 I get a bad consequence. And God teaches us this. 17 billion times in his word front to back.
 If I make a good choice, I get a good consequence. So hey, you didn't touch the cookie,
 is guess what? You get three of them. We're going to frozen. We're doing all kinds. It's that, right?
 You get a good consequence and you recognize it. Hey, since you chose to do this thing.
 But what happens is there's a lot of folks who won't actually use the terms.
 They won't say choice, choose, chose, chosen. They won't say that. They just continue to
 operate from that emotional side. And then what the child is saying is the parents out of control.
 So they're the one that's struggling. So they're the one who has a problem. And I'm just a bad person.
 And I'm unworthy and I'm not good enough in mom or dad's eyes because they're out of control.
 That's what you're teaching your kid. But when you say, "Oh, I'm so sorry. You chose that. Here's
 a consequence. They go, "Dang it." Huh. I shouldn't have done that. And so they think about it next time.
 So that's what I love about choices and consequences, especially when I became a father. And we started
 using it. And because Josiah was our first and he's praised the Lord a very compliant child.
 And the first time we used it, it was immediately effective. And it was on him brushing his teeth.
 But he's seven and he's almost eight years old now. And he's spent his whole life knowing this
 vocabulary with a little kid. He's heard choice and consequence a million times. But it's been
 interesting, even lately, watching the impact of that because we've ratcheted up consequences.
 Why? Because his decision making isn't changing. He's made process as a way to
 consider consequence. Well, instead of or it's been at times, it's been too light. So we calibrate
 the consequence because the importance is not using choice and consequence as punishment.
 It's instead of just in light of yelling at you, I'm going to punish you with choice and consequence.
 The goal is teaching decision making. So just the other night, or the other day,
 I told Josiah because he continuously lays his bicycle down in the drive in the garage,
 which is already filled with too many things as it is. And I told him, I said, okay, this is where we're out.
 If you choose to lay your bicycle down and not put it on the kickstand, you choose to lay it down again,
 and you're going to lose it for a week. And it's like, woo, we went from zero to 60 really fast.
 And I'm like, well, I'm okay with that because he's gets to make the choice. Guess what?
 Two days later, bicycles on the side, I call him not to the garage and I say, hey, what do you see here?
 And he's like, my bicycle's lying on his side. It's exactly. So what does that mean?
 I lose my bicycle for how long a week and he lost it for a week. So we don't have time to get into
 all this so what can hold parents back because here's where the guilt comes in. Here's where all that crap
 comes in the whole parent's back. We're doing it, but he loses his bike for a week. He's okay.
 He has 900 other things to play with. So we're discussing this the other night after he gets his
 bike back and we debrief in my family. We sit down and say, now that you're getting it back,
 what have you learned? And so he learned from that and that led to another situation recently
 about him and he leaves cleaning up their room. Well, they had a really tough consequence
 and that led to that. Well, last night I'm talking to them and he says, Daddy, I come home and
 he goes, Elise and I got our room cleaned up and under an hour. That may sound like crazy to you all
 right now, but my kids pull everything out. It's everything. So it takes a long time for little people to
 get it cleaned. And so though like we got it cleaned and under an hour and I went in there and looked and it
 looked good. It looked really good. And I said, why do you think you all did that? What helped you all
 do that? And Josiah literally said, it was the consequence that you gave us. It was the consequence
 that you gave us is why we actually got it done. And I'm like parenting wind, hashtag wind right there.
 I'm like praised the Lord for it, but the important thing I want you to see is this isn't a
 glorified Joel story. I want you to see what's in this story. The Lord is seeing that, look at the
 decision making that's happening in my kids. And this is why I praised the Lord for being able to
 learn these kinds of things and that this is the stuff that we get to teach you all. There's so many entitled
 young people that are in the workforce nowadays that can't get a halfway decent job because there's
 such victims to going to work and somebody actually wants me to not be on my cell phone all day long.
 They're so rude over there. And they're getting 700 texts and calls and all this and like I can't
 believe that they want this or they don't let me do this and then they just leave and it's always the
 business is fault. And there's so many business owners, business leaders that the last person they
 want to hire is somebody who they can see is massively entitled because they know exactly what they're
 going to have to deal with, right? And it's so funny because you still have those leaders that like,
 oh no, I can lead the young people, I can lead and then they get in there and it's like,
 why won't you just do the thing? Josiah and Elise are growing up understanding that when they work
 for somebody, when they enter the workforce, they have responsibility and if they get in trouble because
 they chose something bad, well, that's their fault and that responsive, it's the consequence then.
 And so even if it's funny even they point out the one that you gave us, which is really, you well,
 when you picked. It was the one you picked. It's still your choice, right? You know, but in their mind it's like
 excitement and I can see Josiah being super excited that they accomplished something because he did something
 wrong and now is, you know, I did the right thing and a great consequence for doing the right thing
 is Daddy's police. His father is happy, his mother is happy, look at how, you know, how people are
 responding now, I'm not feeling horrible about myself and you hit one thing that's super important
 is that guilt side, one of the toughest things for a parent to do is follow through.
 You know, no, you need this, you need this pain. Now, if you ever wonder whether or not your child needs to
 be, you know, you need to follow through on the consequence that you give your kid, ask yourself one
 of you learn the most, one of you grown the most. Oh my gosh, the pain in my life, my life's pain is
 what's on the show. It's an early day time. It's an early day that we do. It's the things that I've
 experienced have caused me to go dang it. How do I make sure I don't do that again? How do I not experience
 that again? How do I, how do I get better at that? So it drives, you know, that guilt that you
 might experience on, oh my gosh, a week that's such a long time. Oh, for the love, he has a scooter. He's
 got skateboarded. Absolutely. But even if he doesn't have those things. Exactly. One week's worth
 of consequence is long as you pointed out that it's his choice or her choice instead of not pointing it
 out and then they think you're the bad person because you're just pissed. Really, it's not that
 big of a deal. I just laid my bike down and my mom or my dad is losing their ever-loving mind.
 If you point out that it was a decision that they made, then they don't go along thinking you're the
 bad person. They go along going, how do I not make that same decision again? So super powerful.
 Good good stuff. Anything else you got to follow up on that? I have, I have to,
 I have to tell you. I can do choices in consequences and decisions. Decision making podcasts series.
 But we're going to do, and this is something that I want to make sure that we are going to do a social
 media episode. Man, let me just tell you. We're going to post it on social media. We're going to
 screw with your brains when it comes to this because listen, there are incredible consequences coming
 from the instant affirmation of social media, the instant worth, the instant I'm not good enough
 aspects of social media. That's going to be coming into the future. So be great.
 Well man, so good to have you back in on the show. Thank you. That's good.
 Topic. Gosh, such powerful stuff. I know it's a lot. Folks, we hope that you have enjoyed this.
 This is something that is, we teach all the time. This is something that's so important to us
 that we're constantly leading people in this. So while we're talking about it in the family aspect
 right now, guess what? It's not just your family. Leaders take these pieces of information and plug it
 into your team. Guess what? You are a leader, which means that you have the responsibility to make your
 team successful not the other way around. If you are a parent, you have the responsibility to God
 to make your family successful not the other way around. So take these things, plug them in,
 use them. Make sure that you're using the right terminology. Make sure that you're setting the
 right priorities. Make sure that you're setting the right values. Make sure that you're doing all of
 these things on a consistent basis. If you do this, you will be blown away how you lead a counter-cultural
 family and you're very highly likely to lead a counter-cultural team as well. Hopefully this is
 helped you today, as always. Take this information, change your leadership, change your business,
 change your life, and join us on the next episode.