 Hey folks, today we are talking about winning the culture war at work.
 What does it look like?
 How do you make sure that you set your self up for success?
 How do you make sure that you solve problems when it goes or
 ride?
 We're going to be talking about that right after this.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and
 life and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 [Music]
 Welcome to the show folks.
 Today we are talking about winning the culture war at work.
 Now some of you out there might be going, Chris, I'm not sure I know what the
 culture war is.
 So we're going to get into that, we're going to talk about how to
 solve that, how to protect yourself from it.
 But before we do, what I want to talk to you about is what is
 culture.
 So many businesses, so many leaders, small business owners, so many
 folks look at the culture inside of their business and they go, well,
 I'm not really exactly sure what it's supposed to look like,
 I'm not even really sure what it is.
 So I will tell you what I say it is, I look at culture as being
 actions and attitudes.
 So whether it's inside of your team, whether it's inside of your business,
 whether it's inside of your family,
 what are the actions that people are taking,
 what are the attitudes that they have on whatever the situation is,
 whether it's dealing with clients, whether it's dealing with team members,
 whether it's dealing with how they approach their day,
 doesn't matter, what are the actions and attitudes that is what makes up
 the culture inside of your business.
 Now, if you look at the Latin route to culture, it literally means to
 cultivate or to tend to.
 So think of a vineyard, which makes me very happy on love vineyards.
 So if you think about what it takes to cultivate that vineyard into a great
 vineyard, something that produces a great grape,
 if you can create a fantastic grape, there's so much,
 when you look there's so much that goes into creating a great wine that has to
 happen inside of the cultivating the fruit itself.
 So before you can even think about putting something into a bottle,
 you have to have a great fruit.
 You have to make sure that you're creating a great grape.
 If you do all of the right things, if you cultivate that, if you tend that
 in the right ways, then guess what?
 You produce something that is fantastic.
 And you can take that and continue to produce other great things.
 So that's kind of what we're talking about today.
 What is the culture inside of your business?
 Look like, what does it look like to tend to your team?
 What does it look like to cultivate people, teams?
 The whole business as a whole when it comes to actions and attitudes.
 How do we treat clients?
 When we look at the internal client.
 Now for me, the internal client is all the team members that we work with.
 Right?
 For me, every single person who works for this business is an internal client.
 I expect that the team members look at each other that way as well.
 How do we treat each other?
 How do we take care of each other?
 How do we serve each other?
 How do we communicate well with each other?
 What does it look like when it comes to the external client?
 Which would be you guys?
 How do we take care of our external client in all those same ways?
 How effective are we as a team?
 Do we operate incredibly well as a team or do we have islands?
 I will tell you, that is something that I do not allow inside of my business.
 In my early days of leadership, I made the mistake of bringing in
 somebody who operated very well as their own island.
 They didn't work well with other team members.
 They only looked at other team members as being there to serve that person.
 That was a great teaching moment for me in my early leadership years.
 I have never hired that again.
 That is a big mistake.
 You have to understand how important it is to operate as an effective team as a unified team.
 How well do we do on setting priorities when it comes to goals and tasks inside of a team,
 inside of an individual's job, inside of the business as a whole.
 When you look at all of these things, these are the things that we want to work through and set
 correctly when it comes to the culture inside of our business.
 What does a culture war look like?
 Think of it as competing ideologies that battle for dominance.
 I know that you can't think of anything that is going on in our country right now that would
 even come close to this.
 That is my sarcasm right there.
 There is a lot of competing ideology that's happening right now.
 There is what we would call ideological subversion that is happening right now, which is push, push,
 points to the point that it doesn't matter what the facts are, the point is driven so far that
 people are going to believe the point no matter what.
 Yes, what?
 That happens or could happen inside of your business.
 Some of you might look around your team and see that you have got gossip that is absolutely okay
 as far as team members are concerned or there's bashing of each other.
 There's treating each other badly or control that's happening or manipulation or whatever it is,
 you might look around your team and see that some people are pushing an ideology for dominance.
 They're pushing it against somebody else's ideology and that very well may be your ideology
 of what you think that business should look like.
 So Jim Collins says this a culture where people learn from mistakes without looking to blame anyone
 is one key to overcoming adversity.
 So do you have a team that is looking to solve problems without blaming others or do you have people
 on your bus that will throw people under the bus as soon as they possibly can?
 If there's a problem, if there's a mistake, if there's something wrong, how do they respond to that?
 I can tell you if you've been following us long enough, you know that we have a process that we do
 around here.
 And guess what?
 We have team members that still to this day will struggle with, well I don't want to look like I
 made a mistake or I don't want to look like a failure.
 The difference is they know that it's okay to fail.
 So when something does go wrong, we handle it the same way.
 What happened?
 How did it happen?
 Why did it happen?
 How do we make sure, how do we fix it and then how do we make sure it never happens again?
 Having that process in place gives people the freedom to make mistakes.
 We have a goal around here.
 Just don't keep making the same mistake.
 We want you to make mistakes, don't let it be fatal and don't keep making the same mistake.
 Learn from it and grow.
 But if what you see in your businesses whenever a mistake happens,
 victim mentality just rocks the whole place because nobody can take responsibility and everybody wants
 to blame somebody else for the problem.
 Well, that's something that's competing inside of your culture.
 So do we prioritize self or prioritize approval of self above the business?
 So in other words, do you have team members that are looking to make their name known?
 Looking to gain worth looking to appear smart or accomplished?
 Is there focus more on them than it is the success of the business?
 If so, then guess what their focus is going to be on.
 Whatever makes them look good.
 They're not going to be focusing on how the business looks at the end of the day.
 They're going to be looking to how they look at the end of the day.
 Also, do you see a lack of respect when it comes to team members?
 When it comes to leadership, when it comes to anybody, maybe even to clients?
 Do you see that people don't respect leadership?
 You know, if you've got a great team of leaders, how do people respond to them?
 Do they treat them well?
 Does leadership treat your team well?
 Do they respect their team members?
 Do we see that there is trust and vulnerability around the team?
 If we don't, then again, what we can see is what that culture war looks like.
 When there is not trust on there's lack of vulnerability,
 and what we tend to find is you're going to find people competing against each other for self-protection
 or defensiveness.
 So, if you're going to win, the culture war in your business, then you have to start by creating
 and tending the culture that you want.
 Let me say that again, you have to start by creating and then continuing to tend the very
 culture that you want.
 So, we are going to get into that when we come back right after this.
 Hey, leaders. This is Joel Fortner, VP, a leadership development at Chris Lcaro's company.
 I have some questions for you.
 Do you as a leader feel like you are caught up in a crazy cycle of stress and tasks that never ends
 week to week? Do you ever have to deal with tough conversations with team members?
 And you sit at home the next day, the night before worried about how's it going to go?
 What am I going to say? What are they going to say? Can I think fast enough on my feet?
 Is it going to be a total failure?
 Is your team making way to make mistakes and failures,
 often especially at the same things? And you find you're the one who has to get in there and solve all the
 problems and it takes away more of your precious time. Are you experiencing culture problems or
 that stuff that just breaks down trust and unity on your team?
 Well, if you can relate to any of this, this is a pretty typical leadership story in situation.
 Here's the thing though, it doesn't have to be that way and we can help you solve these things.
 We can help you become the leader that solves these problems and leads 13 to greater success.
 I want to introduce you to the key leaders program.
 This is an ongoing leadership development program that gives you the lesson track,
 coaching and accountability you need to become the leader you can become to actually implement
 what you're actually learning in this program. If this sounds interesting to you,
 are you want to learn more information? Contact Holly@Holly@christlacardo.com. Again, things fall apart
 without great leadership and intentionality. If you want to solve the problems that are holding
 you back from being a great leader, we can help you with this program, get in touch with Holly at
 Holly@christlacardo.com.
 All right, we are back and we are talking about cultivating the culture that you want and it starts first.
 With defining it. If you are going to win the culture war inside of your business,
 inside of your team, inside of your family, whatever it is, then you have to first start
 by defining what you want your culture to look like.
 So, as you're listening to this, start thinking in your head, what is the actions and attitudes
 that you want to see inside of your team? If you're a leader, you don't have to be the
 business owner. We have got probably 40% not probably by our surveys. We see that we have 40%
 business owners, 40% leaders and 20% other that follow this show. What guess what? As a leader,
 you can help to set culture on your own team. Our goal is to set culture as a business.
 But what if you don't have a leader above you who's doing a great job doing that? Well,
 then set the culture on your team. Do the best you can to make sure that we are operating exactly the
 the way that you think we should be. The culture looks the way that you think it should look. So,
 we define it. What do we want the actions and attitudes in all areas of the business? How do we
 treat each other? How do we treat clients? How do we approach a big project? How do we approach
 though if we are doing something in public? What does that look like? If we all take off and go do a
 special funding in public, do people act okay or do they act ridiculous? We want to make sure that we're
 setting good tones. How do people respond? One of the things that I will tell you to do is in your hiring
 process, take a look at people social media. Why? Because you want to see if the person sitting in
 front of you who looks perfect and fantastic, then you get on their social media and they're just
 ripping people and you know, total negative and all that kind of crap is that the thing that you want
 in your business. So, you have to define what actions and attitudes do we want everywhere? When I look
 at my leadership team, what are the actions and attitudes that I want from them? Do I want them to be
 incredible servants who are doing everything they can to set their team members up for success? Or do I not
 care that they're only goalist to make as much money as they want to make? So, define this. What are the
 actions and attitudes? What do we want when it comes to things like responsibility versus entitlement?
 Listen, a lot of you have probably been in business long enough now that you've seen a comparison
 of when people were doing a great job taking responsibility and what you're seeing more and more and more
 is this entitlementality where people believe that because they breathe you owe them so much stuff,
 right? So, in your hiring process, you have to be asking the question, do I hire somebody who appears
 entitled? Do I hire somebody who looks like they deserve something or do I hire somebody who's like
 I cannot wait to come to your business and bust it because I love what you guys stand for. So, as you're
 defining your culture, what do you want responsibility look like? What do you want things not to look like?
 If you don't want entitlement in there, then that's got to be part of the process. What does it look like
 when it comes to integrity? What does it look like when it comes to honesty? At a sales team member
 years ago selling big ticket items who came to me one day and was super excited because they got this
 really big sale and as they're talking through and explaining to me, I'm celebrating with them and
 then they said something and I said no hold on a second, that's not accurate and the person was like,
 "Well, but I mean, it doesn't really matter." And I'm like, "No, it does matter. You lied to the person."
 Yeah, but it's not even that big of a deal. I'm sure they're not going to care and what I said was, "I don't
 care what you think get back on the phone." You call that person and you tell them, "Hey, listen,
 I'm sorry, I'm so sorry. I misspoke about this here. This part isn't actually correct. I wanted to make
 sure that I corrected this with you. If they want their money back, you give them their money back
 right now." And the response from the team or what team member was, "Are you serious?" That right there was
 a very revealing moment, I should say, of how this team member looked at things and how they looked at
 integrity and honesty and that very much spoke to me that this is something I'm going to have to watch.
 I'm going to have to watch their integrity as they deal with clients. After that, there were
 other integrity issues that I saw, not surprising, but it was a great red flag for me to go. I better
 start really taking a hard look at this person. Now, good thing was, they did call that person back
 and explain them. The customer was like, "It's no big deal, but they could see that we were going to
 choose integrity. At least leadership was going to choose integrity and make sure that that customer
 was taking care of." What does it look like inside of your business? Do you want people who are just
 there to make money? I can't tell you the number of people that I've turned away from our business
 that have come in on the interviews that believe that what we are all about is making as much
 money as we can. And I had to share with them, I'm sorry, I'm going to surprise you. Profit is
 number three inside of my business as far as motivating factors. God is number one.
 Serving people is number two. Profit is number three. Now, for some of you out there, you might be like,
 "That's just crazy." Well, okay, that's fine. I don't have a problem with that. What I teach you is,
 if you want to make as much money, I will teach you all the ways to make money. But here's what I want
 to understand at the end of the day. There's things way more important than money. The King of the
 universe is way more important than money. Serving and helping people, you know, zig used to say
 it all the time. If you help enough people get what they want, you will get all the stuff that you want.
 Take care of people, right? So for me, profit is not number one motivating factor. That is shocked
 some people and they did not stay in the interview process. Great, that's exactly what I want,
 because what I do not want in my culture is people who care more about money than taking care of clients.
 People who care more about money than having, you know, God be a big part of their life. So also,
 do you have the ability inside? You know, when you're taking a look at defining culture,
 do you have or do you want the ability for people to make mistakes? Now, the big caveat is how we take
 responsibility around those mistakes. Like I said earlier, I explained to you how I look at those,
 what happened, what did it happen, how did it happen, how do we fix it, how do we make sure
 it never happens again? Now, that will solve a large portion at least 90 percent of the mistakes that you
 have inside of your business. If you follow that process, now there's other ones that are going to take
 a lot more deep dive into it, but the crazy thing is, if you're not making a lot of huge mistakes,
 then that process will solve a bunch. Do your team, do they understand that they can make mistakes?
 Do they know that they can make mistakes? That's up to you. That is your job. The great thing
 is, is around this place, people know that they can make mistakes, people know that they're expected to
 actually make mistakes, because if they don't make mistakes, then they're not doing anything. And I'm not
 paying people to sit around and not doing anything. I want them to take risks. I want them to get out
 there and move things around, change things, do what's right, make things better. So in our culture,
 that is part of our definition, that is part of what we want. You have the ability to make
 mistakes. Don't make fatal mistakes. And don't keep making the same mistake. If you do, now we will have
 a problem. Solve the problem. When you see that you have a mistake, solve the problem. Next thing you need
 to do. After you spend time, again, you have to give you a handful of bullet points. There's a lot more
 you can do to define exactly the culture that you want. This isn't something that's going to take you
 three minutes to sit and do. You really need to put your brain to this. If you want to win the
 culture war, you've got to spend time busting this out. Next thing you need to do is you need to teach it.
 Leader, it starts with you. Now think about it. I'm teaching you this stuff. I'm talking about
 this. I've been talking about culture for decades. This is stuff that we teach. What would it look like
 if I did not model the very culture that I teach my team? I have the kind of team who would call my
 butt out. They would call it out in a heartbeat. Hey, this isn't something we do. We even had recently
 we had a, I just want to find out guys. This is the stuff that we teach. Tell me where we don't do things
 that we teach. Show me anything. Anywhere that you can find that we don't do it, I want to know about it.
 And we did an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an an
 That's the, the, the, the very things that we teach come out of the mistakes that we've made over
 decades of of time of doing stupid and making mistakes and having to learn how to fix those things.
 So you have to start with you on what does the culture look like if you don't model it,
 nobody's going to follow it or some people may follow it for a short period of time, but it's not
 going to take long before they go well. My leader won't do it. So what's the point in me doing it as
 well? You have to take a look at how you teach it, teach it in meetings, teach it in habits, create rhythms
 of how you do stuff. So a lot of stuff we do a lot of teaching on our Monday staff meetings.
 We have a bunch of heavy meetings on Monday as we go throughout the week. We have a teaching environment
 here where we're constantly doing stuff. We might have clients in and we're having lunch or
 breakfast or dinner and we talk through things and we share those pieces of information. You can see the
 rhythms of people serving really well. You can see the rhythms of people putting God first. You can
 see these habits. You have to actually model that and let other people see that it's okay for them to
 do as well. And then use those opportunities to teach it. Hey guys, here's a situation a client just
 came in and you know that person had a headache and so on. So just ran into the store and picked them up some
 adviler prescription or what I was meant to fact that's a great example. We had a client for a
 strap plan. We had a leadership team here and at one of the night times, one of the clients,
 one of the team members, the leadership team members, through their back out while they were sleeping.
 They woke up in the morning and their back was just jacked up. And so they came in and they were
 just crazy and pain. And what did we do? We hooked them up with my chiropractor. We got them in. He wedged
 them into him, wedged them in. He wedged his back in to his schedule and took care of him.
 That's what you do. You take care of people. Man, was it a distraction for the leadership team?
 Sure it was. Did it affect the strap plan? A little bit. But was everybody actually very happy
 that they didn't have a team member sitting there in pain for days? Yeah, absolutely. So what do you
 want to look like? What are those rhythms? What are those habits of taking care of people? What
 does that look like to your client? What does that look like to your team? Your team needs to know
 that they can look out and go, this is what I know Chris would do because I've seen him do it.
 This is what I know what our leaders would do because I've seen them do it. So this is what I'm
 going to do. I'm going to take this into my own hands, take responsibility and go solve this problem for
 somebody. So make sure that you're creating those habits. As you do this, as you continue to teach
 this, there's something you're looking for. We talk about it a lot here and that is a common language.
 You want to create a DNA inside of your business that people automatically start thinking about
 how to respond in culture. So you keep saying the same stuff. A common phrase that you hear around
 here is gain perspective. We talk about it a lot. We say it. We teach it. We ask people,
 "Hey, did you gain perspective on that?" Hey, on this situation, did you gain perspective before
 you pulled the trigger on that? Hey, did you see how we were gaining perspective from the client
 in that coaching call? We constantly use common language. Another thing that we would say because we teach
 personality styles and communication like crazy is lean in the other person's direction. It's another
 common language thing that creates the DNA inside of our culture that says this is how we handle things.
 You lean in the direction of the other person. Make sure that you're speaking in their personality style.
 Make sure that you are paying attention to what they're saying. Make sure that you're asking plenty of
 questions. As you create that common language, then you start to see that people will use that
 over and over and over again and it sets a habit. It creates a habit of actions and attitudes.
 So what is my attitude when it comes to communication? It's no longer do I win it communication.
 It's how do I set you up for success in communication? What is my action when it comes to communication?
 Do I ask you plenty of questions to make sure that I've gained quality perspective? Do I have
 enough information to make the decisions that I need to make? So create that in that process of
 that common language, that common DNA, and help people to understand, hey guys, this is what we do.
 We do this. We treat people this way. We treat clients this way. The way that we take care of,
 you know, we don't leave a bunch of crap around your desk like crazy because it looks terrible when
 clients come out of nowhere. Whatever it is that you want to do as far as your culture.
 I'll give you an example. When clients come in here, they are coming in a lot of times. People are
 coming in very nervous. They're coming in for a very intense event and they don't know what to expect.
 Help them feel at home. Help them feel welcomed immediately. If you will do that,
 it will set a great tone for them as they are here for a couple of days going through something that's
 intense and they're still not sure what to expect. It's great. Whatever we have new hires,
 we do three events here for our next level match to my group at our office and our event space.
 Then we do one at a big hotel every year. We have clients that are here multiple times a year.
 Whenever we have somebody new, we share with that new person, hey, we treat our clients like family.
 We love our clients. They're a part of our family. They're part of our team. When they come in,
 you have to understand that they're actually going to be the veterans here, not you.
 You're going to see them tell you stories. They're going to talk to you about all kinds of stuff.
 Don't respond as though you're the veteran here because they will pick up on that very quickly.
 It's been hilarious to have team members come to me after a retreat. We have a bunch of clients coming
 and going, oh my gosh, they, this is home to them. It's like, yeah, we actually have a lot of clients that when they walk in the door,
 they go, I'm home. They feel at home here. They use things. They're putting their stuff on the refrigerator.
 They're doing all kinds of stuff. And then they will tell stories to our new team members of how our business is grown
 or what they've experienced since they've been here. That is a phenomenal culture to have,
 not only with the internal client, but the external client. When your external client loves being with you and
 your team and experiencing things and so much so that they are part of the family, that creates a,
 not only a common language, but that creates a phenomenal DNA. Next thing you need to do, after you have
 defined it well, you're teaching it incredibly well, you're setting up those habits and those rhythms,
 you need to recognize it. Guys, listen, so leaders, we can find people doing things wrong,
 and struggle to find people doing things, right? Business owners, it's even worse.
 For business owners, all you can see is the things that people do wrong and you struggle to recognize
 people doing things, right? Listen to me. I don't care if you're a leader, a business owner, a father,
 a mother, whatever it is, find people doing things, right? You're trying to create a culture and
 side of your business, a common DNA inside of your business, the people want to take care of.
 The people want to operate incredibly well, right? If they're going to do it well,
 then they have to be rewarded. People repeat what they're rewarded for. Let me say that again,
 people repeat what they're rewarded for. So make sure that you're recognizing what they're doing. Make
 sure that if they're doing a great job taking care of team members, if they're doing a great job taking care of
 clients, if they're doing a great job with the way that they handle the recent project,
 if they're doing a great job just looking around and saying that there's trash on the floor and picking it up,
 recognize the things that you want them to repeat, right? Make sure that you do that. I'm actually saying
 this before the next thing I'm going to say for a purpose, people need to hear that they're doing a
 good job with this. People need to see that they're doing the right thing. Otherwise, how do they know?
 If all they hear is that they're doing something wrong and they never get the great deposits of
 hey you're doing this well, then all they're going to do is protect themselves from doing the wrong thing.
 Let me say that again. If all you do is tell people the things they're doing wrong,
 then all they're going to do is make sure that their head doesn't end up on the chopping block.
 They would protect themselves from doing wrong. They will not take risks, which does not work in
 my business. I want my team members taking risks. They will not take risks so that they don't hear
 you telling them how they're not good enough. Make sure you're looking in meetings to teach to recognize,
 to call it out. Hey, great job in here. Hey, that was a great question that you asked over their
 great job getting perspective. Hey, well done, leaning in this person's direction, whatever it is,
 call it out when you see it in meetings, make sure that you're saying something about it. Even
 go into your meeting looking for something to see done well as far as culture is concerned. Look for somebody
 to do something that you can call out and say, "Hey, great job with that." I'm really impressed with that.
 Well done. In your hiring process, I can tell you this. If you want to stop a lot of the cultural
 war, don't let the cultural war in. No, I know that sounds like a no-da, but so many of you have a very
 short hiring process. You will look at three resumes and hope that one of you pick the one that's
 smile a lot and really seem to like you. Guys, you've got to do your hiring process incredibly well.
 That's what we have a huge process that we do and we teach on making sure you're hiring correctly.
 Look inside of your hiring process and ask these questions, does this person fit this aspect of culture?
 Does this person fit this aspect of culture? What about this aspect of culture? So I'm going to give
 away a little secret to anybody who ever wants to work here, our initial call is a culture call.
 Do you fit our culture? If you don't, you do not move up in the interview process. Why?
 Because the last thing I want to do is put somebody in my building who's going to bring a bad
 culture in or something that I'm going to have to work out of them. So there's no point taking
 them onto any other interviews. If they respond terribly to questions that we ask about how you
 would treat a client or what you would do in this situation or this, whatever it is, if they're not
 going to respond well, then they don't get to move forward. Now, with that, let me give you this
 caveat. You cannot interview out everything. You just can't. It's impossible. Do the best job you can
 and understand that don't take that as a, hey, get them in the door and then see if they fail or don't.
 Do the best job you can on that hiring process and then make decisions as you go on once they're
 inside. Work really hard in the first 90 days to set them up for success and see how well they do.
 If it does not look like they're going to be a good fit, if it looks like they're going to self-sabotage
 or sabotage parts of your team or your business or whatever, make smart decisions in that process.
 All right, so I'm going to talk about the last part when we come back right after this.
 Hey, leaders. This is Joel Fortner, VP, Leadership Development, Acrystall Cardo's company.
 I have some questions for you. Do you as a leader feel like you are caught up in a crazy cycle of stress
 and tasks that never ends week to week? Do you ever have to deal with tough conversations with team
 members and you sit at home the next day, the night before worry about how's it going to go?
 What am I going to say? What are they going to say? Can I think fast enough on my feet?
 Is it going to be a total failure? Is your team making way to make mistakes and failures
 loft and especially at the same things? And you find you're the one who has to get in there and solve
 all the problems and it takes away more of your precious time. Are you experiencing culture problems
 or that stuff that breaks down trust and unity on your team? Well, if you can relate to any of this,
 this is a pretty typical leadership story in situation. Here's the thing though. It doesn't
 have to be that way and we can help you solve these things. We can help you become the leader that solves
 these problems and leaves their team to greater success. I want to introduce you to the key leaders program.
 This is an ongoing leadership development program that gives you the less-entrak, coaching,
 and accountability you need to become the leader you can become to actually implement what's your
 actually learning in this program. If this sounds interesting to you, are you going to learn more information?
 Contact Holly@Holly@christlacardo.com. Again, things fall apart without great leadership and
 intentionality. If you want to solve the problems that are holding you back from being a great leader,
 we can help you with this program, get in touch with Holly@Holly@christlacardo.com.
 Okay, we're back and we're talking about the last thing I want you to really focus on if you're
 going to win the culture war. The last piece is you have to attack it. You have to attack the things
 that are not going well. Folks, here's what I know. I know a lot of you that are following
 have a highest personality style, a high-c personality style. I'm a very high-s.
 So I don't love conflict and I know you don't love conflict. Now some of you watch in this
 you're like, "Man, conflict is my morning cereal. I eat conflict for breakfast." That's great.
 A lot of people can't stand conflict. But here's what I have come to know in all of my years of
 leading the reason why I'm confident and able to not only teach all of this stuff, but do it like
 crazy is because I had to get in a place of deciding what is going to be better.
 Hoping that stuff hides itself under a carpet and goes away or attack it the moment it pops up.
 So for some of you, I know that sounds like a, "Ooh, man, I just don't want to do that." But look,
 you keep thinking that things are going away and they're not. They're just piling up under that
 carpet that you shove them under. Get those things handled as fast as you possibly can.
 If something starts to go right in your culture, attack it. If it starts to go sideways, if it starts
 to get countercultural, do something about it. When you see somebody treating somebody badly, say something.
 I have literally watched leaders allow somebody to rip somebody apart. Somebody under them.
 Rip another team member apart and their response was, "Well, but they're right."
 Okay, they may be right, but is that how you want people to treat people? Is there not a better way
 we can actually walk through this mistake or problem or whatever it is? Yes, of course there is.
 But if you stand there allowing it to happen, then you're endorsing that style of culture. Let me
 say that again. You're endorsing that style of culture. So don't jump on it. If you see somebody
 ripping somebody's head off say, "Hold up right there." We do not treat people this way. We don't
 talk to people this way. Now, what you're talking about, you may be correct on, but we do not talk
 to people this way. So back it up quickly. If you need a moment to sit down and get some control,
 great do that, but you are not going to talk to this person again that way. So not only is that going to
 stop that from happening in your culture, or at least it's going to put a big dent in it. You may have to
 do this many times over, but guess what it communicates to the person who's getting their head ripped off,
 that you're willing to protect the culture, even if they've made a mistake,
 that you're willing to take care of them. So if things start to go awry, if things start to go sideways,
 make sure that you're attacking it as fast as possible. Make sure you have high levels of accountability
 to the culture that you've said. If you've defined it, if you've taught it, if you've been recognizing it,
 where's the accountability? How do you make sure people are actually doing it? So put things in place
 to make sure that people are responding to it that they're actually walking it out. I will say this,
 communicate a lack of high levels of quality communication is the number one issue in every business.
 Every business that we help out, every business that we see, number one issue is high levels lack of
 quality communication. Number two issue, and I know a lot of you business owners don't like this
 word because you know you were probably beaten over the head with it is a lack of accountability. Now when I
 say accountability, I'm talking about quality accountability, putting things in place to make sure things
 happen correctly. That is something you need. When it comes to your culture, it's no different. You
 have to have that accountability in place. All she you have to define what's not acceptable so that when
 you see something that's not acceptable, like ripping somebody's head off, you attack it right there on the spot,
 people are not surprised. Teach your people to anticipate how you're going to respond to wrong actions.
 Teach your people to anticipate how you're going to respond to when they're doing something that is countercultural.
 Next thing you need to look out for, something that something that I want you to attack
 is this concept of ideological subversion. What does that mean? That means pushing an ideology
 until whether it's right or wrong or has facts or whatever, pushing it so hard until it dominates
 over another ideology. So what you may see is if you have some team members that are pushing their
 ideology like crazy in hopes that you will cave, think, "Yes, what? They're not going to stop until you
 either cave or you shut it down." So if you see people responding with that kind of stuff,
 if you see that somebody's pushing a different cultural ideological way of doing things then what you've
 put in place, shut it down, jump on it, attack that right away, do whatever it takes, do not allow
 that to continue. Don't allow that to continue to affect your business because eventually what will happen
 is is that it won't matter what the facts are, that ideology will be the thing that takes place.
 It will take center stage, no matter who's right or wrong. It just won't matter.
 Last thing I want you to look at is you got to watch out for what we would call the drift.
 If your culture is off 5%, let's say you drive this home and you're doing a great job and then
 all of a sudden it just gets off a little bit. Well 5%, if it starts curving out 5% over time,
 that's going to grow to be a large percent off. So even if it starts to drift a little bit,
 pull it back in line. If you will do this, then what you will create inside of your business
 is a self-policing process. Whereas as you pull it back in when it's a little bit off, so will everybody
 else. So companies that go out of business lose side of who they are and why they exist.
 When culture grows wild, not cultivated, a drift is what drives us to failure.
 Make sure you're cultivating. Make sure that you're defining it, that you're teaching it,
 that you're recognizing it and that you're attacking it, make it happen. I would sum all that into saying
 force the culture that you want to have happen. If you're leading your team through these
 clashes of culture in the right way and you're showing them what you expect and you're shooting
 down the things that you don't want, then pretty soon they will start to respond exactly the way you
 want them to. As long as you are again, recognizing as much as calling out the bad things. So
 last piece on this, you're going to have some people who don't believe the way that you do.
 It's very possible. It's very possible that you're going to have some folks that as you put
 this culture in place, they may not stay on board. That's okay. We have had that happen many times.
 There are standards that we have. This is not an easy place to work. We have high standards.
 We have high expectations here. We have had folks come in that we're all about it. We're super excited,
 believed that they were on board exactly the same culture and values and things that we talk about,
 only to make some pretty heavy duty mistakes and sabotage their way out. You're going to
 possibly have that inside of this process. Expect it. Don't be surprised. You know, well you might
 be surprised on who it is. That's definitely a possibility. That's happening to me multiple times.
 Or you think somebody is not going to sabotage their way out of this process and then they end up doing it.
 Just know that. Be prepared. Be prepared for that happening. You can't interview everything out.
 You can't solve every single thing for everybody. You can't stop somebody from making bad decisions.
 You can't stop somebody from having moral failures in the process. To the best you can to protect
 the culture that you want for the business that you have. If you do that, then you will be winning
 at the culture war. Well folks, hopefully this has helped you today. I'm so glad that you've joined us again.
 Please do us a favor. Help us to reach more people if you would. Just write the show. Go to iTunes
 and write the show. Leave a comment. We would absolutely love this. This is helping you. Help us to
 help more people with this process. So as always, take this information, change your leadership,
 change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]