 Hey folks, welcome to the show. We hope you guys are having a phenomenal day. We are having
 a great day here when I say we, we've got a special guest that's joining us today.
 Stuff Hanson is going to be joining us as we talk through growing up in the social media age.
 Now, last week we had a very deep and tough conversation and maybe it's kind of a rant
 of Chris LeCordo where we talked about parenting in the social media age. And this is just
 something that we've been helping people with for many years and it just continues to get worse
 and worse and worse. And so it finally got to the point where I'm like, I need to get this out.
 I need to get this on the show. We need to talk through this. And then we decided that we were going
 to have an expert, a young one come join us on the show and actually talk through what it was like.
 Not only talk through what it was like growing up, but also somebody who now helps people as well
 in the social media age, young ladies as they're growing and being mentored by stuff. So I want to
 welcome to the show, Steph Hanson. It's so good to have you inside the studio here.
 I'm excited. I'm part of the show. And so let's just kind of talk a little bit about you,
 really quickly and kind of introduce people to you. You're 21. I am. You came on as an intern.
 I did. And you came on to just do some stuff. Just do some marketing stuff and that changed for you.
 Oh yeah. Were you changed your major? I did. Yeah. It was fun. I was like, this is something
 I really want to do. And so changed my whole life. And then came on full time. Once you graduated.
 Yeah. And we also get to say congratulations you're getting married in the fall.
 Or the win side. Yes. We said. Which is exciting. No. So you're on the show.
 You're somebody who being 21 years old. You're very much in the social media world. Obviously you
 work marketing for us. So you're participating on the social media side for the business.
 But in college you're a chaplain. You mentor young woman nowadays. And so there's a whole lot
 that you're doing to help young ladies in this and just even growing up in this world. Much less walking
 through this social media age and everything like that. So we're going to hit that. We talked about
 parenting. We're even going to get to your parents as they parent to you through this process.
 But here's the big deal. Folks, I said it on the last show. I'm going to say it again. There is more
 available than ever before to do online. And there is more risk involved. So more than ever before for
 your family, for your kids, guys, for us as adults. There's so much risk for us. Predators
 abound. So parents, vigilance is absolutely required. So I want to just hit a couple of stats here
 that we talked about again. I'm not going to go through everything but some stuff that we hit on the
 last show is that the first that was that kids are receiving their first phone around the time they enter
 the stage of human development where peer engagement is critical. Yeah. What about you? Did you
 what did you get your first phone? I got my first phone when I went to a public school in 7th grade
 for the first time. In 7th grade. And I remember complaining to my parents. I was like, I want to
 phone. They're like, not until you go to school. So I mean looking at kids fourth grade, they have
 phone. Like is it crazy? Yeah, right? Yeah. And so 7th grade was at a smartphone because I was only
 at a phone. It was a phone. I had a microphone. Yeah. I had a microphone though. But I did not have a
 smartphone. Yeah. Still wasn't there yet. But today kids are getting smart. I mean nobody. No,
 kids are full of phone. There's the odd balls out there. The outliers that the parents are
 like. That would be me. Yeah. Here. This is a phone. It dials emergency stuff. And that's it. But yeah.
 Only half the parents with kids. They just five to 15 use parental controls.
 Scary thought. Obviously again with a flip phone. Not a big deal. Yeah. But I phone. I mean,
 when I saw that sad that just hurt me because there's so much out there for kids that should
 they should not be seeing. Exactly. And we're going to talk about how you could have some
 parental controls on you. Have the children today use social media. I'm just stunned that it's only half.
 I would think that was so much more. I know. Yeah. And social media, I think, is like Instagram and
 Facebook. But I mean not to mention YouTube. Right. You know, I mean, that's not a social media.
 But a ton of kids watch you. Yeah. That's interesting. I guess people don't think of YouTube
 as social media. I think of any of those platforms to be considered that. But it's not. Yeah.
 We don't think about it that way. So just because you're not on Instagram or Facebook or something
 like that, you may be on YouTube. Seeing things you shouldn't be singing. Yeah. And this is probably
 the the worst thing. 500,000 predators are online every day. Yeah. 50% of the victims to those
 predators are children aged 12 to 15. Yeah. So did you experience predators when you were younger?
 No. So you didn't experience a predator. But you did experience something that. Yeah. Like,
 I remember boys direct messaging me, you know, in the sexual content. And I was so innocent. I was like,
 what? So I did not do anything about it. But it wasn't a predator. It was just a middle school boy. Right.
 You know, in my fiancee's little sister, she'll be on Fortnite. And she had her headphones on.
 And she looked at us. She was like, "Some 40-year-old man is on." We were like, "Get off."
 So I mean, even that is just so easy for predators to be online. And she's nine.
 And she's nine years old. All right. So we're going to dig into this. And we're going to dig into
 stuff, experience when we come back right after this.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show where we discuss leadership and life. And discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are. All right. We are back and we are talking about growing up.
 It sounds like it should be a TV sitcom. I am growing up in the social media age. So
 stuff, as we get into this, let's talk about what was it like for you? You got your first phone in
 seventh grade. When did you hit social media? When did you hit, you want to be spending more
 time online all that? I think it was around seventh grade. I remember my first post on Instagram being of
 McFlurry from McDonald's. And it's just so funny. It was like, "You made it for me." That's awesome.
 But yeah, seventh grade and I just moved from Chicago so I was wanting to connect with all my friends.
 And it was just posting stupid pictures. I looked back at it and I was like, "All one direction
 stuff, all filters and memes, which is funny." So yeah. So what about things like, how did you respond
 to getting people's attention or how what was it like for you to, what were the things that you were
 doing? What did you use social media for? Definitely. I mean, looking at it before I went into public
 school, it was just for fun. But then when I went into public school knowing what comparison was like,
 it was definitely to be attractive and to be the girl that everyone thought was funny or had something to say.
 And I struggled with a lot of that because you want to be known both in public school, but also
 the social media age. I wasn't a cheerleader. I wasn't popular. And so I was like, "Well, maybe I can
 just post things on social media and get attention." So it was definitely the attention-saking,
 which is what that stat talks about when you get it before, when you're craving that engagement with
 people. And I didn't just have the public school I had social media. So it was like two different things
 that was craving. So yeah. And I think that's one of the things as parents that we don't realize is
 we convince ourselves that our child is just going to be communicating with other kids at that,
 which is ridiculous because that has not been a thing for many years. Yeah. The child only
 communicates with people that they know. It's funny nowadays where young parents will be very quick to,
 you know, they have a child and they get the Facebook page. They get the, they secure all of the social
 media stuff immediately nowadays, which is crazy. It's crazy because they think, "Oh, it's the urgency.
 We've got to get this social media stuff so that when they're old enough." Right? You see the good, I
 don't know if you remember the Google ad, the TV ad, where they had the baby and they're writing emails
 to the child and as it's growing up and there's videos and all this stuff and it was like,
 "Oh my gosh, that just warms my heart and it's fantastic from the aspect of
 I'm cataloging my child's life and saving things for them. However, that's considerably different.
 A parent's communication to a child, then what happens when a child gets online?"
 And starts to experience not only friends, which may not even be friends.
 Oh, yeah. So like for you, you're moving to a new school, you're trying to create relationships with
 people, which may create issues. Oh, yeah. But then like you said, you had the social media side,
 which means that people who don't know you are discovering you and responding, what was that like?
 Yeah, I mean, I remember a couple years ago I was scrolling through Instagram and I was like,
 "Who are these people that I'm following?" And it was people that I just met when social media started,
 that I just followed and we talked and we directly messageed. And thinking about it and I'm like,
 "I had no idea who they were." But they were, you know, my age and it was cool to have a lot of
 friends. And I didn't have a lot of friends. Yeah, friends. If I didn't have a lot of friends in middle school,
 at, you know, in public school, then I had a bunch on social media. So it was that I want someone to talk
 to, if I can't get it at this place, I'll get it somewhere else. And what did you receive from that?
 Like, did you, like you keep saying, I had these friends to you, they were friends?
 To me back then, they were looking back at it now. No, of course not.
 Right. But in the moment. Yeah, I kind of talked to them about what I was dealing with.
 They'd be like, oh, it's just somewhat to talk to. Right. Someone to either, if it was a guy complimenting me,
 you know, it's like, oh, that's sweet because girls need the affirmation. But it was never anything deep.
 Right. Which I think has really hurt my generation's view of friendship.
 Yeah. Now, you know, like, I think I don't think a lot of people have deep friendships because we
 grew up in the social media age. So friendship is so strange to us. So when you start having people
 outside of your friend group be a part of your social media platform and you're communicating to them,
 what are you communicating about? What are you talking about? Like on my end. Back then. Oh, back then.
 Like what I would post. Still the same things, but it was more. And I look back at it last
 weekend. It was more so about me. And who I am and one caption was, if you don't like me at my
 worst and you don't deserve me at my best. And, you know, this cute little filter. And it just was not
 who's deaf was. Who I wanted people to think I was confident and, you know, didn't have any
 cares in the world when I did. I absolutely did. And how did people respond to that specific post?
 I think some people were like, oh, you're so cute. You're so pretty. You know, nothing is about that
 caption. Yeah, not at all. And what is what my friend and I were talking about yesterday, I was like,
 we post all these things with a selfie and people just comment, oh, you're so pretty. But when we post
 actual words, that means something, no one says anything about it. It's all meaningy, and not.
 Actual things that you should be talking about. That's one of the, that is one of the frustrating things.
 We see so many people, it was 99% women, but now guys are doing, and young guys are doing that. Well,
 actually older guys are doing this too. I'm now watching older guys post selfies and situations that
 I'm like, what is it that you're trying to communicate? This concept of the selfie. What is so to you?
 What is the selfie? selfie is just a picture of yourself when you know you look good.
 When you know you look pretty and you want people to see it. If you have, you know, as the middle school girl,
 I had 300 followers and I could put my face out there and people could tell me I'm pretty. Absolutely,
 I'm going to do that. And it's just progressed on. But I mean, it's so when you think of it,
 it's like that is so stupid. Because they don't know me. They don't have conversations with me. They just
 see my face. And it's not that they're what they're saying is not accurate. Hey, you are pretty.
 Right. What does that do for you? Yeah. I mean, it just makes me feel like I am just an object.
 You know, just something that's pretty. So now it makes you, now looking back on it,
 you think it would just be, you've been through next level. Yeah. We'll talk about that too.
 But back then, what did you think? Yeah. I mean, it would, I felt accepted. And that I was worth
 something because I was pretty or beautiful or funny. But it was never deep down whose stuff was.
 Right. That wasn't what people were craving on social media. And I mean, I spent so much time
 on my phone just getting affirmation from people and giving it to others to be, you know,
 "Oh, if I compliment this girl, maybe she'll be friends with me." This guy say that she's
 pretty, maybe she'll talk to me at school. Right. She didn't. But she was like, "No, things, but I don't
 know." It is the craziest thing when we think to ourselves, I need to compliment somebody else.
 I need to give somebody else affirmation, not because of something that's good about them. Yeah.
 But so that hopefully they will give it back. Oh, yeah. I mean, that's so huge.
 Like, if I, if I like this girl's picture, maybe she'll follow me and like my picture back.
 And I still all, like, be on Instagram and follow girl and I'm like, "I want her to follow me."
 And then I need to retract, "Okay, where am I getting my worth from?" But yeah, I mean, way back
 when it was all about the affirmation and popularity. Because if you think about it,
 middle school, you're finding your click, you're finding who you are. Not to mention,
 mentioned I was homeschooled. So like, I was craving people and acceptance was so big to me back then.
 So. Yeah. So let's talk about some of the things that you struggled with.
 We're talking about this in a, you know, it's a fun discussion. This is something that you experienced.
 But really, what deep down inside is happening? Oh, yeah. So much comparison. I was always comparing
 myself to other girls. And that's why in high school, I had all-guy friends was because I felt like
 it gave me worth. Because I was always told that I was beautiful on social media, whatever. And so
 I just felt like I needed that. But I would always be comparing myself. I'd look at a girl's Instagram
 picture and be like, "I'm not that beautiful." Or someone who's funny and just letting herself
 be loose. I'm like, "I'm so insecure about myself." So I struggled with body comparison.
 And yeah, like I said after entering public school, it was hard for me because I felt so quirky and
 weird. And I was trying to figure out who I am. And that was hard because I wanted to portray myself
 as someone who's completely different on social media. I remember one of my friends. I posted
 some caption and he said, "That's so not true about you." And he commented that. And I deleted his comment
 because I was like, "No, I don't want him to touch it." Yeah, so I felt so exposed. And so it's totally
 a filter of, this is who I want people to think I am. And then talking to people in person, it's like,
 "Oh, I just created my whole, you know, who people think I am." Now I have to live up to that when
 they meet me in person, which is, oh my gosh, so stressful. So side note, you grew up in a Christian home.
 You grew up with Christian principles. You are somebody at 21 years old. I love some of the
 decisions you've made in life to remove yourself from bad situations, to, you know, just to think
 before you step out and do something stupid or somebody kids don't think about that. We've talked about things,
 you know, since you've been working here and been with us, that you have great decision-making
 in so many areas of your life. And so I think this is, you know, your parents, I told you parents,
 you guys did before I even knew them. I met them at a funeral. But I told them, you guys have
 done such a phenomenal. There's no way, Steph is the way she is. If you guys didn't do right things.
 There's just, this is what we do for a living. Walking people through next-level life, walking people
 through the business side of stuff, we're always dealing with the person, we're always dealing with, you know,
 your root system, all this stuff. There's no way you are where you are today at 21. Now if you are
 41, that's a different story, right? But there's no way you've made the great decisions in life that
 you have if you didn't have great parents that we're got in directing. And yet, and so this is what I want
 every, it just put chills literally all over my body. You have great parents parenting you.
 And yet, what are you doing? Seeking affirmation. You are in social media and if your parents could look
 back on it now, they would go, oh crap, how do we know? We didn't. They didn't. They didn't. They did.
 They did. They did. We're going to get the stuff of that. But coming from great teaching,
 great parenting, you're in a place where you're doing the thing that every human being does,
 everybody, seeking your worth from man, seeking your worth from human beings. So even though you've
 got a lot of great teaching, what is the thing that you're doing? You're going after people trying to tell
 you, trying to get people to tell you that you're attractive, that you're funny, that you're whatever.
 That doesn't matter how much Christian teaching you've had, there's still this void inside of you
 because instead of seeking worth from God, you're seeking worth from human beings.
 And so with that comes one of the things that it's a tough discussion, I think we're probably going to
 have Heather on the show at some point talking about this. But the body comparison side of stuff where
 people are literally comparing themselves to other people's bodies. Now, this gets to especially
 for women and guys do this, but just not as much. But for women, this becomes so deflating, so defeeding,
 so so much worth is taint in this process. Talk about what that was like for you.
 Yeah, I mean, I'm five to some short. I've always been short and one thing I did struggle with was
 being the short girl. And it was something that everyone made fun of me. I cannot change being short.
 Really. Oh, yeah. I mean, people said they said I was a hobbit. They said I was an Ewok. Like there were
 things that I laugh at now. But more about then I was like, oh my gosh, that really hurts. And so the body
 comparison was huge for me. It wasn't necessarily about being the weight part, but my face and my
 beautiful like that girl. I'm not tall like she is. I don't have tiny feet like she does.
 And also seeing when you're on Instagram or Facebook and you see other people commenting on another girl's
 post, you want that to be you. And so you see all the things that you don't have. Man, if only I had
 smaller feet. If only I was five, six, then I could, you know, not be called a hobbit. But yeah,
 and that was just hard because I was seeking all that affirmation from man. And then I think about
 where people seeking, you know, one thing that really hurt me or hurt me for others was do they do the
 same thing about me, which I think when I thought about that, I don't want any girl comparing
 themselves to me because that puts, I know what that's like. Right. And so when I thought about
 it that way, I was like, what am I posting that maybe another girl's being insecure about? Because
 I'm not going to post something where someone will say, man, if only I was like, stuff. Because
 it goes both way, you need to take care of other girl's minds with how you post. That's why I don't
 post a lot of selfies as I don't want all the guys in the world, you know, in the world to just be so
 jealous and, no, I don't think any mice, selfies are going to do that. What you just said there is so powerful,
 two, two powerful pieces. And you didn't say the words, but you're saying this. As you looked at other
 women who are posting for people to look at their body. So somebody who is posting pictures of their
 body trying to get worth from their post. And you're looking at their post for them to get worth
 in your losing worth. Like crazy. Because you're comparing it and you're saying, I'm not worthy.
 I'm not good enough. I'll never be like that. So all that is stuff which by the way,
 there's never a time I look at you and I quite you to your outside. There's never a time I look at you and go,
 I'm glad Steph's pretty. That's going to help out our marketing. I'm glad Steph's pretty. That's
 going to help out our clients when they come in the door. And there's never a time I equate you to how you look
 on the outside. That's just not even a thought, but for you in social media during that time,
 it's nothing but you're not good enough because your outside doesn't look like. So you're losing worth
 to a post where somebody's trying to gain worth. Which is so sad when you think about it. And I remember
 when I was nine out of always comparing myself to my older cousin, she'd always be prettier than me and
 not what I was thinking, but it's not on social media. It is not just one person. It is every single
 person in your school that you're comparing yourself. It's not if it was just one person, I think I could
 work through that. But girls are just everywhere. You know, it's and now with celebrities on it,
 it's like even worse because Kylie Jenner's the same age as me. And when I think about that,
 if I decided to get my worth from her post, I'd be like, I am nowhere, you know, like it would hurt.
 But deciding not to get my worth from that has helped. But yeah, I mean, it's constant.
 So it's funny. You just pointed out somebody who has been taught immensely that her worth is
 in what the world thinks of her. And so she lives a life. We can see it. It's not saying anything
 that we don't see in social media. She lives a life trying to get people to tell her that she's
 beautiful and then having to live up to that very same thing. Right. So I love what you said when
 you realize this, you realize, what are you posting that might make somebody else feel insecure?
 Because then it's you posting for worth and causing somebody else to lose worth. So the funny thing
 is you take those celebrities who are posting all of these pictures of their, their looks, their bodies,
 their whatever, thinking I am worth so much because I got 5,000 likes and not realizing that what I'm
 saying to an incredible host of young women or even grown women is you suck because I look like
 I do. So the insecurity of the celebrity, which we don't think they're insecure. But seriously,
 if they weren't insecure, why would they live their whole life on social media trying to show their
 whole body? Right. The insecurity of the celebrity is thinking that the world is telling them how
 worthy they are and yet the very message that the celebrity ascending is, you're never going to be good
 enough. You have to be a millionaire in order to get where I am in beauty sense. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
 it just breaks my heart when I see the young girls I talk to compare themselves to, or even just like
 letting loose. Don't put on makeup when you're in seventh grade. Like it's okay. What do you need to
 make it for in seventh grade on the first place? I know. But like I remember one time I wore makeup
 or no, I didn't wear makeup. And my friend said, how could you not wear makeup at school?
 I'm comfortable with who I am. She was like, I would feel so naked and so ugly. And I was like,
 okay, I would feel so naked and so ugly. I would feel naked. Yeah.
 And if I was naked, I would be ugly. Just at the thought in that. Yeah. I can tell you,
 I've never worn makeup to school. That's good. I've been really good with myself. All right,
 we're going to come back in just a little bit. And we're going to talk about body images that
 Chris LeCurdo or body comparison issues that Chris LeCurdo is at. We'll do that right up to this.
 Next level of life is our two-day personal discovery experience. It's a one-on-one
 personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover your root system,
 to get unstuck in life and to discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace.
 Imagine this. What if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose? What would it look
 like to have healthier relationships with less conflict? Where would you be in a few months, a year,
 five years, if you had clarity, purpose, and peace? Probably a big difference for more you stand today.
 Now, I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself, is there more? There is,
 and there is a better way. And it starts with next level of life. You can go to
 Chrisacurdo.com/discover to take the next step. Now, if you're struggling with this contentment,
 regrets, or not feeling good enough, which most of you are. If you're filled with anxiety or your
 relationships are lacking, don't keep going through the same motions every single day. Learn how to
 move past the things robbing you a piece. Go to Chrisacurdo.com/discover and take the next step.
 [Music]
 All right, we are back and we are talking about growing up in a social media age. And while I did not
 grow up in a social media age, you did. And the last thing we just left off with is
 body comparison. And again, I think we're probably at some point. We'll probably have a portion of a
 show in the future that kind of talks about this because of how important it is for people to understand
 this. We think of that as being only a female thing. Only women have body comparison issues.
 A lot of guys don't really spend a whole lot of time comparing themselves to another dude and going,
 "Oh my gosh, I just wish I hadn't." It just happens. It totally happens. But you talked about
 something that like being 5 foot 2. It's so funny because I don't think of you as 5 foot. I'm 6
 3. So I'm the giants around most people. It's great when I have other tall people around because
 I'm just always the huge dude in all the pictures. I don't ever think about you being 5 foot 2.
 That's not even a thought for me. Okay, that's so funny. But it's interesting the things that do
 hurt us and the things that affect us. So I grew up up until I was 18 years old. I'm 6 foot 3.
 I grew up racing in downhill. So skiing, my thighs were too big for pants to fit my waist.
 My waist was so, so I was so skinny that my waist, I couldn't buy pants because of how athletic I was.
 My pants wouldn't fit it on my waist. So I would have to have belts and things to sense.
 And people would always tell me how skinny I was. Surprisingly, people don't understand this because
 I think if you're skinny, that's the thing you can comment on. It's like telling somebody they're fat.
 When all you hear is my gosh, you're just so skinny. Wow, you're so skinny. It's something that
 wore on me to the point that I got so frustrated at, I think it was 18 or 19 years old that I want on
 almost shock you with this one. A 7,000 calorie a day diet. 7,000 calories to stop it because
 people were saying it so much. And it was just, it was driving me nuts. And I was like, I just
 was at, I was 180 pounds. So six foot three, big, bigger frame, 180, I was dang skinny. I was incredibly
 skinny. I had a lot of muscle, but I was incredibly skinny. And so I shot right on a, I was like,
 I'll just get to 200 or something like that, and I shot right by it. Because of that pain of,
 I don't want to hear another person tell me how skinny I am. And so while I wasn't comparing
 myself to another person, I was receiving the input of, you know, look at how horribly skinny you are.
 It was just, I wasn't good enough. I wasn't worthy enough and it caused me to make some bad,
 well, I mean bad decisions because I did it for other people. I did it to stop up hearing other
 people, which did not help my health at that point. So let's talk about, we've talked a lot about
 what you experienced. We talked about what kids are experiencing. We can see the importance of
 this. I mean, it's just a massive affirmation gaining process, which ends up in constantly,
 consistently losing work. Yeah, and just pain. There's so much pain. I look at girls and I'm like,
 you were in so much pain because you're continuing to compare yourself. Exactly. And it's
 accept your body, don't accept your body. You know, the message is accept to you, you are accept your
 body, but then the underlying message is unless you look like this. Right. Yeah. And so if you don't look
 like Kylie Jenner, don't accept your body. Yeah, just stop. Yeah. Yeah. And while we're talking about
 body comparison, we also, we've talked about the trying to be funny. It doesn't just stop with the
 selfies, right? No. It's with the comments. It's with the, did I post the right scripture? Did I post the
 right, you know, funny name? So talk about that? Yeah, I mean, I was, because I knew we were going to
 talk about this. And I wanted to see what I was like, because I just forgot. And I posted this picture
 of my Bible all highlighted. Like it was first John. And I was like, I love first John. It was just
 look at how good of a Christian I am. I'm highlighting my Bible, which looking back at it. Now
 in landed, I had this conversation yesterday, are you really posting that for someone else?
 Or are you just posting it to be like, oh, a Steph's a good Christian girl? That's a shame.
 Yeah. You know, nose the Bible. She highlights literally every single word. And it was all, yeah,
 look at me. Look at how, and with the funny thing, there's a picture of me with a billboard of just
 and beaver. And I'm like hugging. I'm hugging the poster. And it says best couple of ever.
 And I just wanted to be funny, but looking back at it, I'm like, oh my gosh, I can't believe I did that.
 But it was just to make people laugh. And it doesn't mean that every post that you put out was not
 something funny. Yeah. But when you look at the ones where you're like, what was I intending?
 Yeah. I know exactly what I was intending. I was intending to get somebody's affirmation.
 Somebody told me, I'm funny. Somebody told me, I'm great. Somebody told me whatever.
 And that's the painful part is that it's a constant attempt. And while we're talking to parents,
 we do actually have youth that listen to the show, which is fantastic. And I love that.
 While we're talking to parents, as adults, we struggle with. You're 21 now, but it doesn't mean
 that that that desire for affirmation went away. Yeah. It doesn't mean that you stop going after
 affirmation. It just means that you've learned a lot since, which we're going to talk about that as well.
 So let's get into the parental function here. Your parents. Let's talk about how they say
 the parental. The parental's. How did the parental's do with you? Oh, David Deb did a great job.
 Looking back at it now. I'm so thankful for how they did it. But they took a trip.
 This is the caveat. Looking back at it now. You're so glad. In the moment.
 That's a much. Thank for it. Eddle. But they did a trust but verify approach that
 they checked on literally everything. Dad followed me on every social media. And I had decided
 to contract when I got my first iPhone. Oh, my gosh. It had so many bullet points on it. I've just
 I will put my phone away at nine o'clock. I will do this. I won't do this. And it was just filled with it.
 And I was that kid who always got grounded. Because it wasn't because I talked back or whatever.
 I broke the contract. And I would go over to my friend's house. I was like, yeah, I have a contract
 with my phone. They're like, what? And in that moment, I despised it. My parents would hide like,
 these are the things you struggle with. I had to put my phone in the room. Every single night,
 we had a charging station. We on Sundays, we were not allowed on it until after church. They could
 look at my text messages whenever they wanted to. And that was when that went on until I was about
 17, 18, when I got when I decided to get my own phone bill. But they were like, we pay for this phone.
 We can see. Oh, yeah. There's no privacy. You know, like when you're a kid, there's no privacy of what
 you're talking about. This is so, I'll speak to this because it is ridiculous to me the way that
 kids think nowadays. You can see it. I know personally of kids that went ballistic because,
 you know, some kids got some kids locker got searched at school. And then here you have a 15 year old who's,
 you know, trying to speak like a lawyer talking about how legal this is and how wrong. And everything's like,
 that's not your lock. You don't have that locker. Yeah. That belongs to the school. You put something
 in that property. But there's this mindset that there should be a privacy to something that is not
 owned by a child. So what was that like for you? Yeah. I mean, in the moment I hated it. I was just like,
 but I'm my own person because that's what we're being taught. Right. Exactly. You know,
 kids are learning that they're their own person, which they are, but they remove the parents from
 anything. You can't let the parents do anything. Yeah. At 14, you're so smart. You know everything.
 Even younger Eva was like, I want my own privacy. And I was like, really? You're nine. Yeah.
 You're nine. And I didn't get my own privacy until I was 18. But what's the need for privacy, right?
 Yeah. And it's just, no, obviously. Yeah. We're talking about in the context of this conversation.
 What's the need for privacy? I think a lot of people, I mean, if you think about it,
 when you want privacy, you're hiding something that you shouldn't do. When I was, when I freaked out
 when my parents like my phone, it was because I was probably talking to a guy that I wasn't supposed to.
 And going ballistic like, and me like, no, don't like, I have to have privacy. They're like, no. You
 don't. And so it's always-- You don't have to have a phone. Yeah. Exactly. Oh my gosh. How many times
 they threaten to take away my phone? For a good reason, too. But the privacy thing is, my parents were
 trying to protect me. But, you know, I saw it as, no, this is my life. I can talk to whoever I want to.
 And there's no need for privacy when you're young. And kids will say, whatever they want to say to
 their parents now. But, yeah, I mean, it's just painful to watch the kids pressure their parents into
 needing that privacy. Yeah. So it is painful. And as we teach here, the issue is not what the child.
 That's what the adults. Yeah. Your parents could care less about your belief in what your privacy
 should look like. And I applaud your parents so greatly. Yeah. Because it is-- the concept is to protect
 the child from making stupid-- as parents. Yeah. That is our God-given responsibility that we
 protect you from this world. Yeah. That we protect you from, you know, evil, from bad decision-making,
 all of these things. And the crazy thing is, is that society has gotten to this place where they
 preach your bad person if you don't. You're a bad parent if you don't. Yeah. And I praise God that your
 parents won. No. Yeah. They didn't give a crap. They were just like, okay, we're her parents.
 And so they weren't, but they loved me through that. Yeah. That's the-- That's not like, yeah,
 they weren't just jerks in the room. Yeah. And that's something I tell the girls that I mentor is like,
 your parents love you. And that's why they set these rules. That's why the Lord set rules for us
 as because he loves us. But yeah, I mean, that's not the message that they're getting told by society
 and social media, which is what they're on all the time. They're not getting that from their parents
 or anything. So yeah. So let's hit something that nobody-- everybody hates to hear.
 Everybody can point this out and somebody-- oh, I know somebody who is this, but it's definitely not me.
 And that is the victim mentality. Oh, God, yeah. How much of the-- when you saw your parents
 putting all of these safety-- because they're safety measures. Yeah. They weren't doing this to punish
 stuff. They weren't saying, yeah, to have your phone in by nine. And I bet they would look at it now
 seven years later and go, we probably should have dropped that time to, you know. But looking at this,
 it's not like they're trying to punish you. They're literally putting in healthy boundaries to teach
 you good lessons and to keep you safe as well. But you respond as a victim? Yes. Absolutely. I mean,
 you bring up a good point because that is all I did. When I went to my friend's house,
 I'd complain, "My parents are doing this to me." You know, like, it was all about what they're doing
 to me. And I was always in the right. As if I'm the bigger person or something, they're my parents.
 But yeah, I mean, the amount of times I told them, you don't care. You're just so over-protective,
 okay, like looking back at it now, I was like, yeah, and I'm so glad that they work because I know they
 saved me from so much. But yeah, I mean, playing the victim, that is what everyone does my age.
 It's my own age. It's my own age. And you dare tell them that they're in the wrong because then
 it's a blame shift and it's like, no, actually, I'm going to put this blame on you because I can't
 stand responsibility. Exactly. So yeah, and the fact that we struggle with that so young,
 I struggle with that in some grade when I had a flip phone. In my parents want to treat my text messages.
 I can't imagine what kids are doing now in fourth grade. It's always going to be the parents fault.
 And they're going to put that blame on the parents. When the parents are just loving them,
 and they just want to protect them. And of course, the kids aren't going to see that until way later in life.
 And there's so much, this is the other struggle for me that parents don't see. And
 in the reason why it's a struggle for me is because I want every parent to recognize
 what you're allowing your children to walk in, the dangers. It's like, you know, putting your kid in a
 swamp where there might be alligator, right? Water moccasins. Well, but I think they're going to be,
 I trust my child. I trust my seven year old, my 12 year old, my 17 year old, they'll be fine.
 Instead of going, oh, no, no, no, no, I'm going to stop you from being in it. But you're holding me back.
 You're, you know, letting me be my own person. No, there's literally an alligator right there. So we're not doing this.
 When you look at today's media, when you look at, I have been, I mean, for
 she's probably 15 years or so disgusted with what's called family channels. And these kids shows
 that are horrid. Kids are colossal victims. They speak to their parents horrifically. I mean, it's just
 disgusting cartoons. Yeah. Where kids can talk about each other in horrible ways.
 How do you? I don't know if you're a kid. Oh, my gosh. It was PBS and he was always victim. He
 talked to his kids. And we were allowed to watch it. He talked to his parents so disrespectfully.
 But yeah, I mean, it's awful. The family. We were allowed to watch Disney, Nickelodeon. I watched a little
 house in Paris all the time. I have all seasons. And I screamed when I got like, sees any
 different seasons. But yeah, I mean, you look at the show today. You're like, that is what,
 in that, when your kids watch so much TV, that is what they're being taught. Yeah.
 Um, especially during COVID. Right. All they had was electronics and so.
 We talked about this on the last show about how I grew up in the goby creative, go use your brain.
 There wasn't watching TV. There wasn't, you know, there wasn't a, obviously we didn't have the social
 community. I had a, an Atari. I believe it was 800 before the 1600. I think that's correct. I'm somebody
 just going to fact check me on that one. But I think that's what it was. It was the very first one.
 And it was like, pong. And so you played it for 15 minutes. You know, like, I'm done. Yeah.
 I mean, there was really nothing to do there, right? So we had to go live and be creative.
 Today, what parents are doing by allowing their kids the media, the Nickelodeon's, the,
 I don't know the other, that was a ABC family, the Disney channel. Yeah. All of this stuff that
 where it's not quality, where they're teaching affirmation or they're teaching disrespect and dissonor,
 which for those of us that are Christians, somehow we miss the concept of that, you know,
 honor your father and your mother is actually a commandment of God. So teaching your kids to dissonor
 you is actually teaching your kids to be disobedient to God, right, which is ridiculous. Yeah.
 And then giving them a social media platform, which is a quick affirmation getting process,
 this is a loaded gun that we're putting in kids hands. Now people may think that that's a strong,
 you know, comparison, but seriously, you're mentoring young ladies nowadays.
 And you're seeing the impacts. You've seen the, we've had some discussions that I want to go into the
 details of these things, but we've had some discussions of folks that are distraught by things that
 have happened that you've kind of experienced. What's up in like, if you to watch that? Yeah, to watch
 it kind of unfold. I mean, it's so sad just to see like, he playing the victim. So many people think
 it's okay to complain and call it a lament instead, you know, that's one thing. And, you know, I mean,
 the young girls are, you brought up about being creative and the immediate thing that I thought
 of was being creative nowadays is being creative on social media. Right. And it's having the cool
 aesthetic, and it's not being free with your mind. It's not going outside and playing house.
 I played that every single day. And now it's, you know, you have to be, I don't know, it's like you're in a
 box and you can't know who you are because you're trying to figure out, okay, I want to be this
 person, so I'm going to put that in practice, which is just, if you think about it, it's so sad to think
 that girls in 13 are trying to play an image and play a part. I did not know who I was way back
 went. No, gosh. But I was posting like I did. Right. And so I see girls all the time just like trying
 to pose as something that I'm like, it's okay to not be perfect. I think it's sad that the
 same parents who complained about Barbie because of her, her figure and that's such a bad thing to
 put in the hands of your child. This, you know, unrealistic figure, turn their kids loose on social media.
 So great stuff from your parents protecting you. They didn't bring job. I love, and again, I think
 even your parents on the backside of it would go, yeah, we probably would have still done some other things
 differently. Or again, you turned out phenomenally well. But I think they would pat themselves on the
 back because of what a great job they did. And at the same time, go, how do we see in this coming,
 we would have made this even more restrictive? Or even just being parents of like now, I think my brother's
 17. So it's still under the house and still, you know, a kid, but it's, they've had to
 drink, I mean, just think about it. In eight years, so much has changed. A lot has changed. So what I was
 struggling with is now what my brother is struggling with now. It's completely different. And so they
 have had to shift and, you know, thankfully, there are things like parental controls and getting an
 app, you have to ask for your parents permission, which is fine, but then again, kids would be like,
 "But privacy." Right, yes. So I think that's probably one of the tough things is still this
 concept of, "Oh, if I have a parental app, I'm saving my kid." Well, you know, they only get an hour
 a day on Facebook. No. You really have to ask yourself the question, "Do you want to put things
 in the hands of your kids that cause them to seek affirmation even if it's for five-stinking minutes a day?"
 Do I want my kids seeking affirmation from people who really don't matter, you know, period. If you're,
 if you're seeking from a mentor, am I doing something right? Can you coach me? Can you guide me? Can you
 direct me? But if you're seeking affirmation on how I look, how funny I am, any of that kind of crap,
 then parental controls in my mind even if it's five minutes a day, I don't want my child to have
 five minutes of seeking affirmation from somebody period in an unhealthy way. So, yeah, I was just
 going to say the difference between friendships now. Like because we're seeking affirmation from so many
 people looking at, you know, the younger generation, they don't know how to make friends. Making friends
 have a land and little sister, we were at the pool and she, the son of a girl came up to her and
 she was like, "Do you want to be friends?" And they were like, "Yeah." And then they just looked away.
 And they didn't know what to talk about. I was just like looking at them like, "Uh, do you guys want
 to throw the ball together?" And they go back to my phone and I'll text you. Yeah, exactly.
 Oh, what's your number? What's your role-blige? Which is just funny to think of like, that's what
 it's hard for them to create friendships. And they're only nine. They're only, you know, going up to that
 age. Friendships mean so much. And I know I was hurt because I sought affirmation from people
 that weren't going to be my friend. Gonna be my friend. And I lost time trying to make friends that
 could actually, I could hang out with instead of, you know, comment, "Oh, you're so cute. You're so pretty."
 Right. Which is always so great. Yeah. Oh, I'm cute. Yes. Awesome.
 Just a second. All right. So let's talk about next level life. You, you,
 came into the business, fell in love with the stuff that we do here. We came part of the process.
 And then you got to go through next level life and take a look at a bunch of this stuff that's
 seeking affirmation, all that kind of stuff. What is life like on the backside of, of next level life?
 Yeah. It's a process. But it's such a beautiful process. I remember when we were looking at all
 my life events. He got through the big things. And Joel pointed out he was like, "All of this
 has nothing to do with God. It has everything to do with people. Either getting my worth
 from people or losing it." You know, "Oh, my first heartbreak." And a couple of boyfriends that I
 dated were moving away or creating a new friendship meeting land. And it was all people.
 And I thought about how I used that. And I was like, "Well, God was here with me during this time
 in this time, which is true, but I was never seeking my affirmation from the Lord." It was when I was
 down in the dumps or whatever. And that's when I had to. And you know, when I saw that, and it's
 so nice to look at it through a whole page. And the big picture. Oh, yeah. I was just like, "I am
 not getting my worth from the Lord at all." And I was getting it from social media. There's been
 many times where I've had to delete Instagram or Facebook because I'm just constantly seeking that.
 And it was such an amazing experience to see it. Oh, my gosh, I'm getting it just from people.
 And a lot of it had to do because I started out my teenage years getting affirmation from people
 because of social media. So yeah. And then we put you in a social media role. So we're good.
 And you know, "Whoa, I can't delete Instagram or Facebook." So yes. So you got to experience
 nice little life. If you got to see those areas where you were going after worth, how has that impact
 to your decision making now? Oh, my gosh, so much. I still catch myself seeking that worth. And then
 I have to take a step back and be like, "That's not I need to stop doing that." Even at work,
 I'll be if I did something and then it's pointed out, "Oh, can you change this?" I used to be like,
 "Oh, my gosh." Like, "Oh, no, in my worth would just go away." But it'd be like, "No, don't get
 your worth from that." But take what that person is saying and then do something about it. And so
 even with conversations or miscommunications, my worth would just drop so down. I'm a Heidi.
 But when I get stressed, it drops down. I think 60 points. And I just, it's that worth. And I think it
 has a lot to do with how I grew up in social media. It's because, you know, when you're off
 on 99, I, and that's the stage 99. Yes, it's like, "Oh, no, no, what I'm doing." But, yeah, I mean,
 the decision making process has been so sweet to see that change and just stopping myself.
 When I am getting my worth, I posted a picture because I died in my hair and I was, I did struggle
 with am I getting this from am I posting this to get worth or and I did and I did post it. But then
 we talked about host to be self-assigned and I was like, "Take it." I'm both for that. But yeah, I mean,
 before an ex of life, if people commented on my picture, I'd still struggle with, "Oh, they think I'm
 cute." They think I'm, you know, but now it's, "No, the Lord has created me and I'm his daughter."
 And I don't need thousands of people to tell me where my worth comes from because ultimately,
 it doesn't come from them at all. Yeah. So, yeah. Yeah, thousands of people. No, that was so
 sad. I just got like my mom. Yes, my mom also. So great honey. Oh honey, you're fabulous.
 I love my mother. She's my biggest fan. So I think hearing that and so I will give you a
 count. We talked about you at leadership lunch today. Oh, thank you. About how, because we're in
 the teaching environment. We don't teach this stuff to people and then not do it here. We literally
 live this. You've gotten to experience what it's like to have some of those teachable moments of,
 "Hey, let's talk about this. Let's walk through this. Here's what you're experiencing. And here's
 what you can do differently. And here's how you can change this." So, A, before I go into what I'm going
 to say, "How, what is that like to be in that kind of environment?" I was telling Katherine,
 she was like, "How was that?" Because she heard that I was getting taught something. I was like,
 "No, it's great." Because if I wasn't at next level of life, I think I would have been like, "Oh,
 my gosh, what happened to me." But it's been so great because the personality type that I am,
 I'm craving growth. Growth. But also it's, I seek my affirmation, my worth from that. So it's
 a balance of, okay, learn from what they're teaching you, but don't get so offended because I can
 get so offended. And so it's helped me even in my relationship with land and when we talk about
 things that I need to work on instead of being like defensive because I'm in a culture here where
 we're constantly teaching each other to grow better because we love one another. You know, that is so
 beautiful that even put into practice in my relationships. It's just amazing. There's something I
 love seeing. And you see it especially in high-d young women. It's one of my favorite things when
 they recognize the thing you're teaching. And you do it too. You just get this little, you light up a
 little, you get a little side smile. And you're like, "Yep, that's exactly what I did because you're beyond
 the, "Oh, no, oh, I did something wrong. I'm losing worth." And instead, and how it's, what we do around
 here is, "Hey, let's talk about something here. Something I'm seeing or here's something I'm
 experiencing. You're saying this this way or hey, you don't need to lose worth to this situation. This isn't
 about, you know, don't make this personal. We will talk through the worth issues, the worth struggles
 with team members to build them up. We want people to be strong. We want people to get over the
 worth issues. We don't want them seeking affirmation like that. We're constantly pointing people to God.
 So I don't want people to hear this and go, "Geez, what is Chris, do you over there?" That's
 like incredibly powerful and growing to the person who can receive it. But I always love that look of like,
 "Yep, I know exactly where you're going." -But it's like, "Hmm, I can't find, like, I have nothing to
 do." -There's something like that. -You can't be so hard. -There's something like that.
 -Right, and that's the other thing is like, it's everything as a culture. I can't blame someone else.
 I can't play the victim because that would also be called out. So it's just like,
 "Hmm, that's exactly what I'm doing." -That's what that's all about. -That's our very core values.
 You don't get to be of it, though. You don't get the blame shift. You don't get to it. You don't get to it."
 And the purpose of that is not to once again, it's like your parents. I'm not putting this
 contract in place because I want to punish you. I'm putting this contract in place because I want to protect you.
 -Yeah. -And on the backside of all of this, you've been able to, as we've talked through all this,
 you've looked at struggles with insecurities, struggles with body comparison,
 struggles with comments about your hike. You've seen all of these worth issues.
 -Yeah. -Now on this side of it, looking back, you get to see how powerful it is when you get away from
 all of that. -Yeah. And also with the young girls that I talked to, it's like, I was there.
 Like, I get it. I get that you want to do that and you want to get that worth, but don't.
 It will lead you into so many paths of feeling like you're not enough or you weren't created
 right. You need to change your creation when that's not the case. -Yeah.
 So I'm so thankful. I am glad that I was able to walk through that because now my story can be
 to girls who were dealing with it now. And a much greater sense than I did, but yeah, I mean,
 it was painful, but I'm thankful for it. -You were, you were, imagine the alternative.
 -Oh my gosh. -Where would you be now had that not have been true in your life?
 So here's what I want you last thing. I want you to speak to all the parents. We talked a lot on the
 last episode about the guilt. The guilt of I'm a bad parent. I'm a behind-the-times parent. I'm not good
 if I don't let my gosh. I hear her talking about her parents. And man, I could never be that
 strict with my kids because I would lose worth as a parent. All the things that the guilt happens
 with those parents. As a 21-year-old with parents that put, you know, decently strict rules in place for you.
 And now you're here years later, what would you tell to all the parents who are carrying that
 guilt right now? -I mean, I was there kid. I was the one who said so many awful things to my
 parents because they were overprotective. They didn't get it. They were just behind the times. And it's okay
 to walk through that. We're always going to be walking through hard times. And it was challenging for my
 parents. It was challenging for me, but don't give into that guilt because you're trying to protect
 your kids. And as a 21-year-old girl, I want your kids to be protected because there's so much
 out there. And I remember my dad would always say, you'll think me later. And I was like, no, I thought I was so mad.
 But I think them all the time. And our relationship is better. And I think what parents sometimes
 figures that their relationship will be ruined. That's not the case. If you put in those rules
 and you tell them why you're doing that. And you continue to tell them, it's because we love you.
 I heard that more times than I can admit, like, then, yeah, like they told me that all the time,
 we love you. This is why we're doing this. And it's okay that your kids are understanding that right now
 because love means something different when they're growing up. But when they are my age, they will
 look back and be like, thanks so much for that. And that's what I mean, I know parenting is hard.
 And but it's so worth it. I know what's worth it because I was the kid that I know a lot of
 parents are struggling with. I think that's the thing. We need to hit that again because we're talking
 with sweet stuff. You know, the stuff that we know at 21 and you know, as long as we've known you
 here and it's been gosh, it's been almost a year. Wow, next month it'll be here. And so we know this
 sweet, amazing young woman. And yet, as you've pointed out a couple of times and I don't want that to slip,
 you were rough on you. You talked back, you were disrespectful to your parents because of how much
 you thought you were a victim and your parents stayed on it. They were so on top of it. Like in
 seventh grade, I had a boyfriend. Your parents are going to love listening to the doctors. I thought they were like,
 "Yes, we did it!" You don't know, she had. Yeah, honestly, on the comments,
 no, but I remember I was hiding the fact that I had a boyfriend and they took my phone and I was like,
 "No, no, no, no, please, because I knew it was coming next." And dad said, "You have to break up with
 him." And the next day I had to break up with him. And it was awful and I hated that moment. But looking back
 at it, I was like, I was in seventh grade thinking, "Right." That was what it, no. But this is the love of my life.
 Yeah, my gosh, she gave me one of those baseball necklaces that in looking at it, and I was like,
 "No, I'm so glad my parents forced me to do that." Because imagine what could have happened if I
 dated and they were on top of it. It's one thing to be dating in seventh grade. It's another thing to be hiding
 it. Yeah, hiding it and also texting was new. You know, I mean, there was so much that could have
 happened, but I'm thrilled that. So, caught me. The message to the parents that field guilty is,
 don't keep going. Do what is right. Do what you feel like as your responsibility to God.
 Yeah. You do those things. You'll be amazed that your parents, your kids will come back to love you.
 They're not going to love you for a few years. They're going to struggle for a few years. But again,
 the other thing is that you still had outside influence that was telling you that your parents were horrible.
 Right. So, again, if you watch limiting the experience that your kids get, the influence that they get,
 then they won't think you're the worst thing on the planet as well. So,
 it's just tell them that you love them. I think that if they're after me, if they're seeking
 affirmation for love, that's what I was looking for as love. But I always knew without a doubt that my
 parents loved me. Yeah. That was never something a question. Yeah. And I wish I took that and
 appreciated it when I was looking for it the most. And so, that leads into a great piece. You've
 now been here for almost a year. You've been through the next level of life. And what we teach on
 your worth is that it's your greatest worth is from God and it never stops. It isn't five minutes.
 It isn't a flash in the pan. It's a consistent thing that you can draw on all the time. So,
 a great piece as you're getting married this year is that at some point when you have kids as well,
 that you will have the opportunity to take it to the next level of life. And see that one coming
 to the, you know, to actually lead your kids in understanding that they're well before their teenagers,
 that their worth is in God. It's not in man. And so, that's what I love. That's what I
 am so excited. Yeah. I mean, in the fact that land was with me during next level of life,
 you saw everything and Joel would say things that we like, oh my gosh. But the fact that we
 have been there before and now we know in the future when we have kids, okay, this is how we
 do things. It's okay that you all at us, you know, like we know who the Lord is and we know where
 they're worth, they're worth a supposed to come from. Yeah, try to put children in the ways of the Lord
 and when they get older, we'll not leave them. So powerful stuff. Yeah. Thank you for joining me today.
 I appreciate it. So good to have you on. Folks, there you have it. A couple of great episodes talking
 through what it's like to be raising children in this social media age. And here's again what I
 want you to hear. Listen to somebody from this side of things. If you have bad influences in your life
 that are telling you that you're not a good parent, that you're behind the times whatever,
 consider the source. Judge the character, okay. So what you're hearing me say is not, go punish your
 kids, their terrible they should live without any, no, that is not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is
 from any eternal perspective, you have got a responsibility to God to raise those kids well. And for those
 of you that are not believers, just ask yourself the question, do you want your kids raised by today's
 society? No, it's got to be the answer, right? Take the responsibility, raise phenomenal adults. Don't
 raise children, raise adults, but protect, protect, protect, protect. If you will do those things, it will
 absolutely change them as adults. Now here's a big piece. Many of you are struggling with a lot of
 things that we've talked about, the guilt, the not understanding how to lead your kids this way,
 the struggles that you had from your parents when you were younger. You know, as we've talked about this
 as a great conversation with staff and having really great parents that have parented it well, many of
 you didn't come from that. I'm going to dare say most of you did not come from that. So here's the deal
 we can help you through this process. Next level of life is something you need to go through. There's
 not a person on this planet we shouldn't go through this, right? It's something that is so important
 to you to get to a great understanding of where all of that's coming from, what the decision
 making is that you have, where you don't have healthy boundaries, where you have guilt, all of those
 pieces that you've heard us talk about forever. So go to crissacrittle.com yet, just get the information,
 just get the information for next level of life and then when you're ready to come get this done
 because you will be amazed at how much it will impact your life. Hopefully this has helped you today,
 we'd love to hear from you, we'd love for you to share this. You know there's a lot of people who
 need to hear this. These are powerful conversations that we're having and a lot of people need to hear this,
 so share this with them. Also take this information, change your leadership, change your business,
 change your life and as I said last week, change your kids lives. And join us on the next episode.
 [Music]