 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the show folks.
 Today we have a fantastic interview, something I am super excited about.
 So let's kind of talk about this.
 There's no doubt that things are a wee bit crazy in the world right now.
 Now whether you agree with the chaos or not, there's one thing for certain,
 we're all being affected by it some way.
 Now from fear and struggle in the workplace to fear and constant adjusting in the family.
 And where do we see God in all of this?
 This is great stuff we're diving in today with our guest Tom Bradford.
 Now Tom is a former Fortune 500 corporate senior executive who retired early in life when the
 Lord suddenly inspired Tom with a consuming passion for Israel and the Holy
 Scripture.
 He spent several years in intense Scripture study being mentored by Jewish Torah scholars and Christian
 academics has poured over countless volumes of works of the great Hebrew stages in
 rabbis and the learning Christian scholars ancient in modern.
 His formal university education began with study in archaeology and egyptology before becoming a business major,
 which propelled him his former career in the high tech field.
 He is the founder of C.W.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.B.A.
 We have a bunch of business owners, a bunch of business leaders and just helping people from a godly perspective.
 We have actually a decent number of folks who aren't believers who follow the show.
 And they stay with us and we talk through a whole bunch of god stuff.
 And so it's great to have you on having had such an impact in my life.
 So my first question for you, what in the world is going on in our world today?
 What is it?
 Yes, it's interesting.
 The other day I was watching a documentary about the time between the wars where we were one or two.
 And I was thinking to myself how much this time reminds me of terms the end of the roaring tombs.
 When pleasure seeking, self pleasure was everything.
 When people were really setting God on the shelf, a time when the church is really weren't empty.
 A time when women were giving up their babies and we've seen the movies, they put it in a basket, lay them on the door of the door of the door.
 Terrible things going on in society and then of course the chaos of it all.
 And I see something similar going on in the world today.
 And it is a very disconcerting.
 But I have to say I think it's a real opportunity for believers in Christ to shine now and step up and take a big role and showing people there is a way.
 Absolutely. I think it's been interesting to watch Christian family start to respect the staying at home and spending more time together.
 The very things that God wants us to do is be a family, be that nucleus and I'm watching parent at their parent that is actually enjoying the time that they're spending home.
 But I do see a lot of social media. I get I check it out from time to time.
 But it is interesting to see how much people seem to be standing up for their Christian faith and going after a lot stronger stuff.
 There's some pretty crazy stuff going on out there. And so I am happy to see that some people seem to be standing stronger for. Are you seeing that on your end that people are standing more for their faith?
 I think so. I think I do. What I see I think is that those people are in some ways coming back to the faith because of fears.
 They're not sure what's going on and they're trying to find an answer.
 I think others are stepping to faith up to another level and they're saying, you know, I've loved Jesus for a long time.
 And I've gone to church and I've tried to live my life right.
 But you know what? I think there's more to this walk. I think there's more to know about my Lord and my God that I don't know.
 And I want to know him for who he really is. And I see that happening and that warms my heart.
 Yeah, we do a lot of stuff on the personal side. We do a ton of stuff on the business side.
 And it has been stunning and a lot of our business events that people have been asking about more God stuff, which has been fantastic.
 Like, just I hear you talking about this dive into it. Tell me more about this obedience thing. Tell me more about this. That's been great.
 You come from that former Fortune 500 background, former senior executive spot. What are you seeing when it comes to business right now? We had, like I say, we got about 40% owners, 40% leaders, 20% everything else. What are you seeing in business right now?
 No single thing of course.
 I think one of the things I see is pretty smart things in my local community happening with various businesses that they try to survive.
 I think it's difficult for large companies, especially the large publicly traded companies to adapt as fast.
 But I also am a little concerned that I see companies dumping employees.
 Because down the line, it's not just to harm to that employee, it's going to be a harm to the culture of that company.
 And as I'm sure you will know, basically, it may look to shareholders like a company as numbers.
 But to the actual operations of a company companies people.
 And you spend a lot of time finding the right people sorting through them, training them.
 You're going to get a lot of passionate people for their jobs.
 And it's not they're not easy to replace.
 Absolutely. What advice do you have for leaders and business owners?
 Most of the people listening to us, we have a bunch of small to medium sized businesses.
 We've got some large businesses that we work with.
 But it's a smaller percentage.
 We have a lot of folks that are trying to get their way there.
 What advice in times like this do you have for them?
 You know, I want to say stay the course.
 My grandchildren. I'm lucky to have four locals.
 Sometimes talk to me about things and things they're worried about.
 And I tell them that it's an old adage, but it's true.
 This too will pass.
 We've been through many terrible times.
 And it doesn't take very long for, at least in America,
 but it doesn't take very long before we're passed it.
 And it's history.
 And the thing to do is to hang in there, make the best decisions you can.
 Again, please remember that that human capital is never bit as important as the financial capital.
 And to just wait because the change is not over.
 And I can't tell you how we're going to come out exactly the other side.
 I do believe there'll be some changes.
 I do not believe it will be as drastic as some people are forecasting.
 And so again, stay the course as best you possibly can.
 We have, as you talk about human capital for the business.
 We have a saying round here that it's your job as a leader to make your team successful.
 And it's not the other way around.
 It's amazing how when you look at people as they're there to make you successful.
 How they're more those tons, they're more utility.
 But when you recognize as you're saying, these are the people that make it happen for me.
 These are the people that, you know, the clients pay me.
 That puts the food on my table.
 But if I don't have the people to serve those clients, nobody's going to pay anything.
 So it's incredibly important to you.
 Next level of life is our two-day personal discovery experience.
 It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover your root system.
 To get on stuck in life and discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace.
 Imagine this.
 What if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose?
 What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict?
 Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years?
 If you had clarity, purpose, and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today.
 Now I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself,
 "Is there more? There is?"
 And there is a better way.
 And it starts with the next level of life.
 You can go to Chrissacrid.com/discover to take the next step.
 Now if you're struggling with this contentment, regret, or not feeling good enough,
 which most of you are.
 If you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking,
 don't keep going through the same motions every single day.
 Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace.
 Go to Chrissacrid.com/discover and take the next step.
 You started to tour class.
 I think 15-ish years ago.
 It's a little bit longer than that.
 Which has been, so it's tourclass.com.
 This has been a profound impact on so many lives.
 And mine included in a bunch of us here that have been to Israel.
 That have been really looking at things from a Middle Eastern lens.
 And more that you do so much of that first century understanding what was going on
 during the time and all that.
 It's just powerful to look through Scripture through that lens.
 Here we will ask the question, how does God do something over there?
 They would never ask the question how.
 He made everything.
 He did everything.
 They would ask the question why.
 You are a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a person who is a
 He would ask the question.
 He would ask the question.
 I think one of the important things to understand about fear is that it is a mindset.
 Fear and afraid are a couple of different things.
 Fear is a mindset that we don't.
 We don't have to think about it.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 It's a very important thing.
 Then when he points to the lilies or wildflowers of the field and he says, "Man, even
 Solomon was never, never looked as good as this."
 It's so interesting to hear God giving his opinion.
 Listen, my flowers looked even better than Solomon.
 I'll make these things.
 They're going to be ripped up and thrown into the fire.
 Interestingly, as you go forward, it hit me so hard that as he's talking about the worries of tomorrow, don't worry about the things you're going to worry about.
 That stuff today isn't a worries of its own.
 I haven't taught that scripture.
 I have spoken through that scripture.
 I've been around it so many different times.
 For the first time, it hit me what so many of those worries up today would be.
 We think of the fears of business or the fears of COVID or the fears of whatever's going on in the country.
 For those of us that are working hard at being obedient to God, not because of obedience to get your salvation.
 But because you love God and what he's done for you, there's so many choices today.
 There's so many choices in my day today to make right and to be fearful or be concerned about what's coming in the future.
 It just kind of makes that really ridiculous when you think about, "Man, I've got to make sure I treat somebody right today that I don't get angry that I don't."
 I don't know. Just respond badly to somebody.
 And I think that that was a very insightful thing for me to recognize when I used to think that the fears that he's talking about are the big fears.
 What we would call the big fears. Something bad is going to happen.
 You know, that stuff. And yet so much of it is, man, the more I make right decisions today, the more blessings I experience from him, the more I trust in him, the more blessings.
 So here's my question. And you talk about this in and again, folks, you need to go to our class.com.
 I suggest starting at the beginning. But this is not your six to such a powerful one.
 Can is fear and trust compatible?
 Well, certainly I think I can answer that quickly and no, it's not.
 And this is something that I think maybe I'm sure troubles you, troubles me is when I see my fellow believers have feelings for him.
 I think I have feelings for him.
 And in all the gospels, but Matthew as well, specifically says that fear and trust are not compatible.
 That he says, "How little trust you have."
 And the more trust you will have on our Lord, the less fear you will have. It's a teeter totter. It works exactly that way.
 And this trust I think can only be had if we can turn our focus from all the terrible things going on out there.
 I mean, let's face it. Our newspapers today and our media is just filled with every negative thing imaginable.
 We have access to the whole world to see what's going on. And so there is no lack of terrible things happening.
 And when we focus on that, and that's where we look every day, it's been all of our time.
 Fear is probably going to grow, but if we'll spend some time with the Lord in prayer and in study, I'm such a strong believer in study.
 You don't have to be a scholar. To get in the word and study, and all my gosh, the soothing nature that just flows through from those words and gives us a piece without understanding.
 You know, I'm going to try to hear for a quick second, because you have studied.
 I'm trying to catch up on a lot of the books and things that you've suggested.
 What are your go-to's for study? Like, where do you go that is?
 The average person can jump in and glean from?
 Well, that's a good question.
 I think there are two or three out there that speak on a level that's the most of anybody can jump into and be happy with it.
 One of them sounds like an odd name, but it's called the Jewish New Testament commentary.
 I David Sterns is real people language.
 He talks about the things that we want to talk about.
 He explains scriptures as a name says, "Utestimate."
 That's the one.
 I think some of the smaller books by Alfred Eddersham and also my favorite authors.
 Man of many, many times, Dr. David Flusser.
 Those are excellent.
 He's got a book out called Just Plain Jesus.
 That I would strongly recommend.
 Good stuff.
 I'm trying to catch up on a lot of the stuff that you've suggested over the years.
 I tell people, "I just mentioned to you not too long ago.
 You've been doing this for so long. I've watched over 15 years of you in one year."
 Which is great.
 Which is fantastic.
 Hey folks, here's the deal.
 Every business has a culture.
 But are you leading yours intentionally or settling for whatever comes in the door?
 If you're finally ready to create the company culture you've always wanted,
 then you're going to want to sign up for my free digital video series creating a culture of champions.
 I will personally guide you for 10 days to get clarity on the culture you desire and lead your team to embrace it.
 You can sign up at Chrissacrittle.com/culturelesson.
 Again, if you're ready to make a change sign up for my free digital video series creating a culture of champions at Chrissacrittle.com/culturelesson.
 [Music]
 To the fear piece, to the study piece, as you're pointing out, the more time I will spend in God's Word, the more time I will spend in prayer with him.
 And I was highly suggest, you know, I was in ministry for many years.
 I read a lot of books about the Bible and spent less time reading the Bible.
 I totally suggest otherwise, spend a lot of time reading the Bible.
 And, you know, study to it about other things.
 Don't miss out on how alive the Bible is for you.
 When you do that, you made a statement in the episode where you said fear is the gateway to panic.
 What did it talk to that? What does that look like? What do you see in that?
 Well, we talked about just a minute ago that fear is a mindset.
 Panic are our decisions and actions that come out of it.
 And you're not going to get panic, without beginning with fear.
 Exactly.
 And what we see going around us going on all around us in this world right now, has stepped out beyond fear into the area of panic.
 We see governments, we see companies and I don't care at what level.
 I'm talking about some of the biggest.
 All right, that are making some panic decisions.
 And panic just as fear is not a cut.
 Well, obviously panic that falls out of it is not either.
 So probably individuals, companies, churches that are making unwise decisions out of panic
 are going to look back and regret it.
 So that's kind of the pathway that I see.
 Yeah, I think just even looking at something so simplistic as the toilet paper rush.
 The things of, you know, we're not going to have toilet paper.
 Oh, for the love, they're still making the same amount of toilet paper.
 They just now that you hoard it, now it's a little bit difficult.
 It's going to come back to that, but that panic of what's going on in the world like you're saying.
 When I'm fearful, I can't spend a lot of time watching social media.
 I can't spend a lot of time watching.
 I stopped watching the news back when it was.
 Who invented the internet, how gore and bush.
 You know, well, they were, I would watch the news in the morning and I would just find myself upset.
 And I'm like, I can't do this. I can't have this influence.
 So I literally have not watched the news until about 30 minutes after about a week after COVID hit.
 I wanted to check something out because I can't.
 I don't want that influence in my life and it just affects me in a way that I don't need that fear.
 I stay focused on God. I stay focused on God's word helping my family to do so as well.
 I want to be honoring of your time.
 So I have so many more questions that I could ask you.
 We could literally, I could do this for days with you.
 It's so good to have you on.
 But I know we're getting close to the time that we told you that we would have you on.
 So I just want to jump down to a couple of questions.
 What are some daily practices to keep sanity in our hearts?
 What are some daily things that we can do?
 Well, I think we've almost touched several of them.
 Number one, turn off that television.
 Serious.
 And as you point out, I think we've learned some things, especially parents with school kids, children, when they're home.
 If you're fortunate enough to still have family at home, spend some time with them and listen.
 All right. But start every day honoring God in prayer.
 It is amazing what comes out of that.
 And lay these worries and anxieties.
 Some of which are, you know, they're not unreasonable, all right.
 But lay them before him.
 Spend a little time every day.
 You don't have to spend a long time reading the word.
 My daughter-in-law, as a girl who's going to be a junior high school this year.
 And they have a little 15 to 20 minute Bible study just the two of them every single day.
 I love it.
 And again, it just, it begins the day with a different mindset.
 And again, don't respond to the panics.
 I don't know. You know, it's, this is these are things that are not so easy to say hard to do.
 Some of them. It's truly is.
 And I recognize that. And I honor that.
 But you asked the question, and I think that's the answering.
 And Chris did just keeps coming back to the same thing.
 God in his word. God in his word.
 God in his word.
 This is, and he tells us that's what it's really about.
 All we're doing when we do that is becoming an harmony with the fabric of the universe that our career made.
 That's what we're doing.
 I don't know.
 It's about in fear and panic.
 We're outside the box.
 So get back in.
 I love that.
 And I was going to ask you one of the questions I was going to ask you is how to get rid of that fear inside of the family.
 And I think you touching on your daughter-in-law and granddaughter of that.
 If you do not spend that time with your kids, how can you stop sending them out into the world?
 You're praying.
 You spend five minutes reading a devotional and send your kids out and they're not spending time with God.
 You've got to take that responsibility.
 And that's so powerful.
 Even a 15 minute devotional with your child, the walking through and setting them up for the day.
 Choose God. You've got a lot of influence that you're going out to face.
 Choose God in that influence.
 So that's so powerful. I love it.
 All right. Last thing, if you could go back and speak to a young Tom Bradford, what would you tell him?
 Speak less and listen more.
 Powerful.
 I think that's the number one thing.
 Obviously, is anybody to see and from what I do on the talker?
 And that's what I would tell that.
 That's what I would tell you on Tom Bradford.
 So powerful.
 Well, Tom, thank you so much for doing this.
 I appreciate it. This means the world to me.
 I know it will be to our listeners as well.
 So appreciate you joining us today.
 And at some point, Heather and I need to get on down there and visit you guys down in Mayor Allen Florida.
 And now you got a new, you guys are working on a new building.
 We are. That looks fun and exciting for C to be able to have ministries.
 How can people get more of you?
 Just go to tourclass.com and I want to point out something you know.
 There's not one thing you have to pay for.
 All right.
 Every single lesson, whether it's video, audio, text, the PowerPoint illustrations.
 It's all free.
 No gimmicks.
 Yeah.
 And happy to do it.
 But that's the best way. Go to tourclass.com.
 And it's all there for you.
 I love it. Tom is one of my virtual mentors.
 Rabbi Brutchorman is a virtual mentor of mine.
 Israeli biblical institute is fantastic information.
 So many things out there to help you grow closer to God.
 So take advantage of this.
 So thank you for joining me again today.
 I hope this has helped you.
 Take this information.
 Change your leadership.
 Change your business.
 Change your life.
 And join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]