 Today on the show we are talking about tribes,
 no, not indigenous people groups,
 but the kind of tribes of team members who believe in your organization's purpose,
 follow the vision and champion the cause, all of this, and more on the Chris LaCardos Show.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardos Show, where we discuss leadership and life,
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. Today we are talking about tribes.
 Now when we talk about tribes in the business world, we're really talking about a devoted following.
 So I want to press that analogy a bit further and talk about creating a tribal culture
 in your business and your organization. So if you've listened to me for any amount of time,
 then you know that I brag on my team a lot. Yes, I know, I'm aware. I brag on my team a lot.
 Why is that? Well, because I have an amazing team. I have a great team that does amazing things.
 A team that I don't have to worry about when I'm not around. A team that, you know,
 kills it, gets things done, makes decisions on their own. They understand the things that they need
 to do. They have responsibility. They make great decisions. They solve problems. They do all that stuff
 with a tribe mentality. We have a tribe mentality in our office. And because of that,
 this enables me to be a higher-level leader. What does that mean? That means that because I'm
 leading people to success, I'm helping them to become successful in their role to feel a part of
 the mission and the purpose to know what the actual vision is and where we're headed, I treat them with
 dignity that allows them to really take on the purpose of this business, the mission of this business.
 This really helps them to champion this cause that allows them to take ownership in our culture.
 So I'm going to give you the tools you need today to begin cultivating a tribal culture on your team.
 If you're an owner, whether it's your individual team or if it's the business, whatever it is,
 it's going to propel you to the next level as a leader. So we're going to talk about that when we come
 back right after this. Hey folks, here's the deal. Every business has a culture,
 but are you leading yours intentionally or settling for whatever comes in the door? If you're
 finally ready to create the company culture you've always wanted, they're going to want to sign up
 for my free digital video series creating a culture of champions. I will personally guide you for
 10 days to get clarity on the culture you desire and lead your team to embrace it. You can sign up
 at Chrissacrittle.com/culturelesson. Again, if you're ready to make a change sign up for my free
 digital video series creating a culture of champions at Chrissacrittle.com/culturelesson.
 Today on the podcast, we are talking about tribes and why teams that adopt a
 tribal mentality are inherently more productive, more successful, have more fun getting the things
 done that they need to get done. tribes follow their leaders willingly. They do it with a desire
 to follow a leader who is walking out their company's mission. This is crucial to their success.
 And thus to yours as well as their leaders, your teams leader. Consider this as a thought that came
 from Rich Handler. A team is a collection of people all working for a common goal. A tribe is a collection
 of people who know one why they are together. Two are passionate about each other. Three,
 bleed for a unified common cause and four trust each other implicitly. So folks, that is what a
 tribe looks like. How many of you listening to me are going, "Yep, that's exactly what I want for my team,
 that's exactly what I want for my business." Of course, you wouldn't be listening to the show
 if you didn't want a better team. If you didn't want people who were sold out for the very thing
 that you're doing. So let me ask you a tough question. This is one of my gut punches for you.
 Okay, are you ready? Does this sound like your team? Does your team sound tribal? Here's a deal.
 A tribe is a group who has your back because you've got theirs and everybody knows it. Folks,
 this is what we teach here. This is why we have KRAs. While we spend so much time cultivating culture
 and teaching our teams, your team is worth the investment. I promise you. It is. When you have a team
 that is tribal, you will be amazed at how much you accomplish. And crazy thing is, you'll be amazed
 at how much you accomplish with less. I have a phenomenal team that does a lot and it's smaller than a
 team that would normally pull off the amount of stuff that we do. Right? So what's wrong with the
 traditional idea of a team? Well, nothing if they actually operate as a team. But what do we see now
 a days and today's workplace? We see a lot of folks who are operating as individuals. We now a
 days for those of you that have been business in business for a long time. We see a lot of entitlement
 mentality. You see people that are called a team not actually operating as a team. You have a lot of
 people on your team as I do my air quotes. I've had them as well. But they see themselves more as employees.
 There's a lot of businesses that we see coming into what we do that instead of having a team,
 a unified team moving in a unified direction. They have a lot of individuals that are working for a
 paycheck. Working for the weekend will not help you win, guys. So if you have a team of folks that are
 ready for that paycheck that they're showing up on Monday morning, you know, the O-Darn it's Monday,
 thank God it's Friday. If that's their mentality, then guess what? You don't actually have a team.
 You have a bunch of individuals. Tribes function more like families than groups of employees. Right?
 So how do we take a team? A group of employees who are just working for a JLB and turn them into an
 enthusiastic tribe on a mission to make the world a better place, insert whatever your purpose is here.
 Right? So what is our mission? Our mission is worshiping God by loving people and getting
 individuals on organizations to create a perspective. I want people on fire for that mission.
 Anybody who's been here that's experienced any of the things that we do here has experienced
 my team. I dare say you would agree you're probably amenning right now that I have a group of people
 that are sold out for that. I have a group of people that are moving in that direction.
 Folks, that's what you want. People who are sold out for what your particular purpose is.
 And that's what your mission is, right? You hear me talk about that all the time. Your mission is your
 purpose for existence. So if you aren't experiencing the things I'm talking about so far with your team,
 then you have to ask yourself the question why not. But right after you ask that question,
 you have to understand we can change that. We can fix that. We can help with that. So let's dive in.
 Here are the five things that you will absolutely need to turn your team into a tribe. The first thing,
 number one, a cause. Folks, tribes share a common cause, a common mission, a common purpose.
 And it's got to be clearly spelled out otherwise if they don't know what your purpose is,
 then their purpose is the reason they keep showing up. That's the reason why they keep coming in
 most likely it's for a paycheck, right? So here's what you have to understand. We judge everything
 that we do here by our mission statement. So let me kind of give you an idea of what this looks like.
 If you have somebody showing up every day and you have a great business and you have great people
 and you love what you do and you love your team or maybe you're the owner and you love what your
 business produces. But you don't really know what the purpose is. So if you don't have a clearly
 defined mission, almost every single time, as people come through like strap plan and we ask a
 question, hey, what's the mission of the company? There is a low probability that the owner can actually
 spit out the mission statement, low probability. There is an incredibly low probability that
 anybody else on the leadership team can. What does that tell you? That tells you that if they can't
 say it, there's no possible way the rest of the team can, right? If it is not a purpose, if it is not
 a cause for you, if it is not something more important than what you're doing with that eight hours,
 if you can't be doing something else, more important than eight hours of that day or 10 or 12,
 whatever you're working, then why are you there? Your team needs to know that showing up every single
 day, there's something bigger than themselves that they're accomplishing. Oh, Chris, here you say this and
 I'm gonna, this is me bringing back my, my one guy who always says, "But all we do is poor concrete."
 Okay, great, where do you do it? Do you poor concrete in the same hole for 40 hours a week? No,
 of course not. What do you do? What do you do with that concrete? Well, we make driveways, we make back
 patios. Okay, what do people do on those back patios when they're done? I guess they have
 barbecues with their family and stuff. All right, then that's something that is important.
 Folks are being able to go through their week, make their money, teach their children, raise their
 families and enjoy time on that back patio, whether it's sunbathing or grilling chicken. I don't care.
 Do you see that what you're producing is actually helping people? You're not just porn concrete.
 So here's what I want you to do. I want you to take a look at your business and ask yourself the
 question, "Hey, do I know our mission by heart? Do I know our purpose by heart? Do I agree with it?
 Is it the reason I show up every day? Is it the reason that the team members, my leadership team
 shows up every day? Is it the reason that their teams show up every day? If the answer is,
 probably not, we have our first problem, right? You have to, create. You're going to have a
 tribal mentality inside of your business. You must create a cause that everybody can get behind.
 So if it is, let's say we are the ones that are pouring concrete, then my team needs to know what we're
 doing with that, how we're helping other people, how we're helping businesses, how we're helping families.
 We need to point those things out. We need to share testimonies. We need to build this cause for people to
 see. The great thing about what we do here is, we have tons of testimonies. Every week, pretty much every week.
 I don't know if we actually have many weeks that we don't because we have people coming in for next
 life or scrap plans or our mastermind programs. Any of that stuff, we're helping people and then we
 intentionally share those things in our staff meeting. We intentionally make sure that people get to
 hear how people's lives are being changed. We get emails and text some of the time from clients
 with amazing things that they're saying about our team and what's happened in their lives.
 And then we share that with the team. Guess what? When you're sitting there and you realize that you
 were a part of that, that you did something that made that happen even if you weren't directly involved.
 You might have done something, you might have done the marketing piece that got people in.
 You might have done something, you know, creating the event or, I don't know, making the food or whatever.
 When you hear how people get their lives changed, it changes the way you look at your job.
 It makes it where it's not a jail be because you have a cause. So take a look, take a hard look at
 your business. What is the cause that every single person in that business can get behind? Number two,
 culture, guys, you know, we are we're pounding this like crazy because it is something that you have to
 make sure that you get done and done well. Tribes have unifying and specific customs,
 things that they experience on a regular basis, the way that you lead a staff meeting, the way that
 you teach people, we have a heavy teaching environment inside of our business, the way that we teach people
 how to lead the internal client or the external client, how you serve people in the process, how you make,
 you know, your job, you take excellence, you do things with excellence inside of your role.
 All of these things, this is a drum that we beat on a consistent basis, why? Because what is culture?
 Culture is actions and attitudes. So let me say that again, this is the Crystal Curd definition. So
 if you've got a different one that's fine but really when you take a look at a culture what does it come
 down to? Comes down to the actions of the people and the attitudes of the people. So if you want people to
 be set apart, if you want people to that you experience that aren't like every other
 corporation or every other business or every other place where people just have a J.O.B. then you have to
 create a culture that allows them and teaches them and rewards them for having the right
 actions and attitudes. When people treat people well, you need to show them, you need to model
 what treating people well looks like and you need to model that there isn't an internal client,
 not just an external client, right? They need to understand that. They need to understand that failure is not
 only okay but it's inevitable. You know that I go against a lot of the mainstream thought leaders
 that are out there that are preaching this message that failure is not an option. That is ridiculous.
 That is a terrible thing to say. Why failure is inevitable. It's going to happen. It's what you do
 with it. Do you teach your team that if they're not failing, they're not doing anything?
 Right? I want my team taking risks. I want them doing stuff. I want them moving things around.
 With that, I have to understand. They're going to fail. They're going to screw something up.
 Something is not going to go right. I have a culture that teaches them how we handle failure.
 What happened? How did it happen? Why did it happen? How do we fix it? How do we make sure it
 never happens again? Whenever I see one of my team members struggling with a fear failure,
 yes, it still happens in our own business. Absolutely. Right? Because people don't like to fail.
 They don't like to make mistakes. But I always ask in the same thing. Hey, what's going to happen if you do?
 What if you do fail? Well, it's not going to be that big of a deal. I mean, it's not that it's not a
 fail failure. Okay. And then how am I going to handle it? You're just going to walk us through how we solve things.
 Great. And then what's going to happen after that? Nothing. We're going to move on exactly.
 I want people to know that they're not working for somebody who's going to rip their head off.
 None of my leaders are going to rip their heads off. Right? Instead, we train people how to overcome failure.
 That is a big, huge part of creating a unifying culture. If you want people that feel unified and feel
 like they can move in the same direction, then you got to get rid of the things that cause them to not be
 unified, like helping them to remove self protection or defensiveness. Right? Because you can't be unified
 when people are trying to protect themselves because they're worried about failing or they're worried about
 losing worth to you or they're immediate leader. So for us, we talk culture on a daily basis. We're always
 recognizing culture. We're always pointing out good culture. We're always pointing out bad culture.
 We're recognizing when people are doing a great job. We're recognizing when people are not doing a great job.
 So if that happens, if we see that somebody is going counter cultural, we do something about it. So
 you have to make sure that you are creating the kind of culture that allows your team to not only be incredibly
 successful, but also unifies them, brings them together, points them in the right direction,
 and allows them to actually do their job with dignity and feel like they are a part of a purpose
 that's bigger than themselves. If you set up the right culture, then I can promise you. And let me say that again,
 if you set up the right culture, what you need to do, and if you make sure that it's not happening in your business,
 that you're actually being intentional about making culture happen in the right culture,
 then people will operate with a tribe mentality. All right, so we have got three more things that we
 are going to hit, and I'm going to teach you about those pieces when we come back right after this.
 Next level of life is our two-day personal discovery experience. It's a one-on-one personalized event where
 we guide you through a process to help you discover your root system, to get on stuck in life,
 and to discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace. Imagine this, what if you could
 wake up every morning with a clear purpose? What would it look like to have healthier relationships
 with less conflict? Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years? If you had clarity, purpose,
 and peace, probably a big difference for more you stand today. Now, I know it's possible,
 because I've been where you are asking myself, is there more? There is, and there is a better way,
 and it starts with the next level of life. You can go to Chrissacrid.com/discover to take the next step.
 Now, if you're struggling with this contentment, regret, or not feeling good enough, which most of you are,
 if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking, don't keep going through the same
 motions every single day. Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace. Go to
 Chrissacrid.com/discover and take the next step.
 Alright, we are back, and we're finishing up, well, finishing I'm only less than half way there. So,
 we have three more pieces. If you want to create a tribe, if you want to team that acts like a tribe,
 we've got three more powerful things that you need to create. By the way, if you've not noticed these,
 these are all sea words. So, this is easy for you to remember the things that you need to do.
 So, we've talked about, you have to have a cause. We've talked about, you have to create the right
 culture that is going to also create the tribe mentality, the third thing. And this is really important.
 A lot of the business owners listening to this, you may struggle with that. A lot of the
 leaders period may struggle with this. Number three is, you have to have a community. You have to
 create a community inside of your business. Now listen, tribes have clearly defined roles and responsibilities.
 Well, sure, of course, doesn't everybody Chris, while they should, but a lot of people actually
 don't do that inside their team. What in the world does that have anything to do with
 community? Here's a deal. When people are actually, their roles are created for them to work well with
 other people, then you get shared unity or think of it as common unity. What is common unity?
 It's community. This is where every piece is pivotal. What do I mean by that? If you set up
 every single one of your team members to have clearly defined roles, clearly defined responsibilities,
 and you don't just stop there, but you show them how they work with everybody else or just the ones
 that they are working with inside of your business, then you create community. I'm not just talking about
 do they take their same break at the same time and they talk with people and share pictures of
 their kids and their dogs. That's the one I'm talking about. I'm talking about the ability to work
 incredibly well with other people for that shared vision, for that shared unity. You see where I'm
 going here? You can create community by tying together roles and responsibilities. If they don't know how they
 fit into your bigger picture, if they don't know how they're supposed to support each other and
 be there for each other and work well off of each other, then you're missing out on that piece of
 community. I'm all Chris, my team members are always chitchat and I think they chitchat too much.
 That's not what I'm talking about here. I'm talking about creating that tribal mentality where they want
 to work together to make things happen. One of the greatest pleasures that I have as I leave this business
 is just being able to listen to my team working together on projects, working together to make something
 successful. They don't just come around and go, "Hey, well this is your thing and tag your it." Now you do it
 and then send it back to me. They sit down. I watch leaders lead people to success. I watch team
 members come and ask phenomenal questions. I watch team members work together to make something incredible.
 When you have that type of community, then again, we have that unifying vision, that unifying
 momentum where people are working together to accomplish a bigger goal. Super, super powerful inside of your
 team. You must set up a community for your team to work together. Number four, compassion.
 Tribes are passionate about each other's welfare. Think about this. I know everybody listening to this
 has work with somebody or many people or you may even have these people on your team that don't give
 a rip about anybody else. What's one of the worst tires you can ever make? An island. Never hire
 somebody who is all about their own thing who does not care about the team. You can't have a team
 if you have people who are only focused on themselves. I can tell you this. The most powerful things
 I've ever done in all the business that I've done in the years has been around teams of people
 working together. Teams that are on fire for the thing that we're trying to accomplish. So when you
 have people that have compassion, when you have people who care, when you have people who worry about each other,
 that take care of each other, that set each other up for success. And when I say worry, I'm not talking
 about crazy amounts of worry, I'm talking about making sure that somebody has the tools that they need,
 leaders who are compassionate about making team member successful. When you have that, then you end up
 with something even greater. Trust. You end up with people who trust each other. You end up with people
 who are passionate about each other. When you have trust, that is one of the biggest things and
 most important things that's actually also one of the most important things in number five that I'm
 going to talk about here in just a second. When you have trust, then you can also have vulnerability.
 When you have vulnerability, then you care to communicate well. When you have trust, because you have
 passion, then you have something else, and that's accountability. If I can trust that you've got my
 back, if I can trust that you care about me, if I can trust that you have compassion for what I'm trying
 to accomplish or what I'm going through, even when it becomes outside of just the regular workday,
 like maybe I'm experiencing a loss in my personal life or something like that, when I can trust you have
 my best interest at heart, then I can be accountable to you. We always say around here the top
 two biggest issues in any business are a lack of high levels of quality communication and a lack
 of accountability. If you have a tribe of people that are passionate about each other and about
 each other's welfare, then what you will create is an immense amount of trust, and then you will create
 the self-policing part of accountability, because I want to be accountable to somebody else who's
 busting their butt to make this mission this purpose happen. So again, if you can build the trust,
 you can create the vulnerability, if you can create the vulnerability, you can create the accountability.
 So that is a huge piece, compassion is a big piece of any tribe because you can see that there are
 no individuals in a tribe, right? You can see that you don't have, there's not a group of people
 who don't care about each other accomplishing a big goal. Number five, communication, communication
 is incredibly important. If you are going to have people that are sold out for your cause,
 if you are going to have people who bleed for the thing that you're trying to accomplish. If you are
 going to have people that want to accomplish every day, something powerful, that is bigger than
 themselves. If you want people who can trust each other. If you want people that believe that they're
 showing up for something bigger than a paycheck, then you have to have clear high levels of quality
 communication. And what's even more important than just having great communication is, understanding that
 tribes speak a common and well-defined language. We call it a common vocabulary around here.
 When people have the same type of communication, when leaders practice and model what
 great communication looks like and the ways that we communicate and the things that we talk about,
 like for us here, we're huge on personality styles. We're huge on leaning in each other's direction
 and understanding somebody's personality style, their disc and their values and asking the question
 when you're communicating, what does it look like to set this person up for success when it comes
 to communication and thinking through how they're going to receive information. All of that,
 when you can set up high levels of quality communication, then your tribe ends up with a common
 vocabulary, a common well-defined language. That in itself is fuel for your the engine of this tribe.
 Because now they don't spend time in conflict about not understanding what somebody's trying to say.
 They don't spend time not communicating with each other because they don't understand where somebody's
 coming from. They're not spending time leaning in their direction instead when you do have a tribe
 that speaks with a common vocabulary or a well-defined language. Then what happens is that you have
 people that they understand where other people are coming from. They understand what's being communicated.
 They know how to lean in each other's direction. They receive that. They understand that they have
 responsibility. But here's the other great thing. When you have that common language, if somebody's struggling
 with it, then you have a team of people, a tribe of people who help other people become successful
 with that common vocabulary. This is where you really, when you're putting all these things in place,
 this is where you really start to create phenomenal DNA inside of your business.
 Where when people step in, they see your business from the inside, they see that everybody has this common
 DNA. This thing that runs through, they communicate the same. They lean in each other's direction.
 They understand the culture. They understand the rights, the wrongs. They understand how to treat
 people. They know when to take care of people. All of these pieces become phenomenal DNA inside of your
 business. You have to have all five pieces of this in place. If you will do this, here's the five things.
 You have to create a cause. You have to create phenomenal culture. You have to create a community
 inside of the work itself. You have to have compassion where people care about each other. You have to
 have high levels of quality communication. If you will do these five things, you will buy default
 create a tribe inside of your business. If you're not the business owner and you're a leader and maybe
 you work in a place that, man, you don't love how it's being run and things are just crazy and
 willing, you can create this very same tribe mentality inside of your team. If you will do these things,
 then you will have a tribe that wants to accomplish, wants to move in the same direction, wants to be unified.
 Folks, if this is resonating with you right now, if you're hearing this and you're going,
 man, my team is quite a ways off from that. Believe me, I get it. That's how I teach the things that
 I do teach is because I used to have teams that were a long ways off of this and praise God, I've learned
 the ways to solve that and lead that. If you would like to have a tribe, if you would like that, then there's
 a great way to get started. That is by checking out my free digital video series, creating a culture
 of champions. Super easy. Go to christlacardo.com/culture lesson. One word, culture lesson, and you can
 get started on that right now. That will help you immensely to start plugging in the culture piece
 inside of your business. Folks, hopefully this has helped you today. I'm so appreciative that you
 join us for every single one of these episodes and we really appreciate it when you share this.
 You know people that need to hear this. Please do me a favor. Share this if you would.
 Leave us a review. You can just do the stars or you can write something about whatever you would like
 to do. We would appreciate that. As always, take this information, change your leadership,
 change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]