 Today on the podcast we're learning how to self-manage our emotions.
 Folks here's a deal.
 You can get unstuck from what's holding you back.
 That will lead you to more freedom.
 I'm going to talk about that and more today on the Chris LaCordo Show.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCordo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 Today we're talking about self-managing our emotions.
 Now some of you tougher folk out there might be hearing this and I'm really speaking to you
 hideies.
 I don't have a problem with my emotions.
 I'm well okay.
 And some of you hide seas out there might not recognize or don't like to think about
 emotions.
 Yes, I get you.
 I understand.
 I know that's something you don't enjoy to think about.
 Here's the truth.
 It's a little secret that people don't know.
 Everybody.
 Everybody gets stuck dealing with their emotions from time to time.
 When we go through next level of life we help people to understand that there are a whole
 lot of responses that are holding them back, that are keeping them from being a more authentic
 and better version of themselves.
 Here's the deal.
 We are imperfect.
 We are broken beings.
 We are in need of healing and I'm going to use a word here because I want to talk about this
 throughout the show.
 Refinement.
 Now we don't talk a lot about refinement.
 Some of you coming from a Christian background, this might sound a little familiar, but I
 think I'm going to hit this in a way that you might not have heard this before.
 We don't like to talk about the refinement process, making us better because it's tough.
 It's painful.
 It's not easy to work through our root systems.
 It's not easy changing our surface level of responses and I can tell you, for a lot of
 folks, it's not easy to grow up out of dealing with emotional responses.
 But consider this quote from the Nazi concentration camps survivor, Victor Franco, between
 stimulus and response, there is a space.
 And that space is our power to choose our response.
 Let me say that again, our power to choose our response.
 And our response lies growth and our freedom.
 Folks, we're going to talk about that and how to self-manage our emotions when we come back
 right after this.
 Next level of life is our two-day personal discovery experience.
 It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover
 your root system, to get on stuck in life and discover what's holding you back from freedom
 and peace.
 Imagine this.
 What if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose?
 Well, what would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict?
 Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years, if you had clarity, purpose, and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today.
 Now, I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself, is there more?
 There is, and there is a better way.
 And it starts with the next level of life.
 You can go to Chrissacrid.com/discover to take the next step.
 If you're struggling with this contentment, regret, or not feeling good enough, which most of
 you are, if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking, don't keep going
 through the same emotions every single day.
 Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace.
 Go to Chrissacrid.com/discover and take the next step.
 We are back, and we are talking about self-managing our emotions.
 And I'm assuming that a lot of you are, you might still be pondering that quote from Victor
 Franco between stimulus and response.
 There's a space, and that space is our power to choose our response.
 In our response, lies our growth and our freedom.
 Folks, here's a deal.
 We struggle.
 We are human beings.
 We struggle with our emotions.
 We struggle with responses because so many times we are not choosing our response.
 Instead we are reacting.
 Now, there is a difference between a reaction and a response.
 Right?
 I know a lot of times it sounds like it's exactly the same thing.
 But there are times we have force of habit reactions, or you can call it a force of
 a response as well.
 I don't want you to get hung up on that.
 The thing I want you to recognize is the force of habit versus the choice.
 So often we have had this process of responding the same way over and over and over again
 to specific things that are happening to us.
 To maybe it's people.
 Maybe it's, you know, anytime that we feel out of control, or we feel out of control with
 the situations around us, or we feel like we're losing worth or we're about to lose
 worth.
 Or you see it all the time where people, all of a sudden, realize something may go, "Hey, why
 are right now?"
 And I might look stupid.
 I might look like, I don't know what I'm doing.
 I might look like a failure.
 Oh my gosh, here's another opportunity for me to be a failure or hey, right now, everything
 feels really out of control for me.
 My, you know, the situation around me.
 And so because of that, I'm going to self-protect, I'm going to become defensive.
 All of these responses.
 And this is just literally scratching the surface.
 What we would call the surface level, responses.
 And I didn't see that I was going to go right there.
 Scratching the surface on the surface level, responses.
 See, this is, I cracked my own self-up and folks.
 My jokes don't get any better than this.
 We're just literally scratching the surface because there is a ton of responses that we
 tend to do or reactions that we tend to have that are force of habit.
 It's the same thing over and over and over again.
 Whenever the situation comes up that we're afraid that we're going to lose worth in, whenever
 the situation comes up that we are afraid that we're going to be out of control in, or
 we're not going to be able to control the situation.
 Whenever we feel like somebody is going to treat us horribly, or whenever we feel like
 we need to gain somebody's acceptance, we tend to do the same thing.
 We tend to have the same responses.
 The struggle is many times those responses are unhealthy.
 Many times those responses are things that are holding us back.
 They're keeping us from being free.
 So let's just kind of look at it for a second.
 If I'm trying to, I'm going to have this great discussion the other day, I think it was
 after devotional, maybe after staff meeting.
 If I'm trying to be accepted by people group, we were talking about back in school.
 How often you saw people that wanted to be a part of a click or wanted to not be a part of
 another group that was talked badly about by one of the clicks.
 One of the things that we discussed is that sometimes people would do whatever they could
 to people please the click to be accepted by the click.
 Why is it because the click was so amazing and so honorable and had such great character?
 No.
 It was to avoid the judgment.
 It was to avoid the rejection of the click.
 Folks think about that for a second.
 How many times in life have you tried to please somebody?
 One in attempt to not be rejected by that person.
 I know it's got to be a ton for most of us, right?
 For a lot of us.
 I spent a large portion of my life being a people pleaser.
 It did not help me.
 It helped me to be able to teach people.
 I could tell you that right now.
 But I got a lot of trouble with my emotional responses and my choices in life.
 So think about that for a second.
 If you are trying to please somebody so that they don't reject you.
 For a lot of you, you're probably thinking of a parent right now.
 Maybe you're thinking of a grandparent, but you're thinking of somebody in your life who
 has rejected you.
 Maybe they held back love from you.
 Maybe they're a way of trying to control you in the situation is that they held back love.
 They didn't give you love or they ignored you.
 Your response was to dig in more and try and please that person.
 Who are you trying to please?
 If somebody is holding back love from you, what does that say about them?
 That says that they are struggling with worth.
 That says that they are struggling with their surface level response.
 That says that they are being unhealthy and potentially toxic in the situation.
 And you are trying to please them.
 Guys, if I feel the need to reject you because I'm struggling with something, that means
 that I'm the one with the problem, not you.
 That means I'm somebody who's not being mature.
 That means I'm somebody who is having a force of habit, response and it's unhealthy.
 So these are the things we're talking about.
 And these are just a couple of examples where we experience us choosing our responses in an unhealthy
 way or force of habit, force of habit responses where we're not even thinking about it.
 It just happens so incredibly fast.
 So here's a deal.
 If we are going to become healthy or for all of you believers out there, I'm going to refer
 to what Peter wrote about the refining process.
 If you're not a believer, this still should hit home because I want you to think about this for
 second.
 There is this refining process of metal of gold where you take a precious metal from the ground.
 And then you heat it up like crazy.
 And an amazing thing happens when you heat it up, when you take gold and you heat gold up,
 then what's called the dress, the impurities, they go straight to the top.
 And the person who's refining the gold just swipes the dress right off the top.
 And what in the gold cools down, what you're left with is it in considerably more pure
 gold because you got rid of the impurities.
 That is the concept when it comes to maturing and growing with your emotions.
 When it comes to maturing and growing with your responses in life, when things are feeling
 out of control or people are feeling controlling or you feel like you're losing worth or trying
 to gain worth, all of those things when you start to have those force of habit responses are
 unhealthy.
 They're impure.
 Why?
 Because they're based on that situation.
 So if you're responding emotionally and you're responding in an immature way, then you're
 being impure or unhealthy.
 So here's what I want you to think about.
 We have these phenomenal opportunities.
 Paul talks about it.
 Peter talks about it.
 James talks about it.
 When you go through trials and guess what?
 Christians.
 Yes.
 God does.
 Yes, he does.
 Put you through difficult, tough, painful things.
 If you're in a place where you're hearing people preach to you, that God is nothing but
 a God of love, get out of their fast and go find somebody who's willing to teach you the truth
 about God in the gospel and in the Bible, right?
 Because God is a God who does punish.
 He is somebody who cracks.
 He is somebody who brings difficult times in our lives.
 That's who he is.
 Why does he do that so that he can refine us?
 Now there's some reasons we don't even know.
 Take a look at Joe.
 Take a look at what he allowed there.
 We still don't know why he allowed that.
 That was his choice.
 But take a look at the processes in your life where God is actually using struggles or trials
 to cause you to be better.
 Now here's what we see all the time.
 All the time we see people responding to struggles and trials and I'm really do think.
 A lot of our Western Christian theology has jacked this up by this ridiculous teaching that
 God is only love.
 That is a horrible way to live and think because then you miss out on the God who corrects
 and teaches which is a part of love, by the way.
 When we are going through trials, so many times we don't recognize it may be the king of
 the universe who is putting us through the trial.
 It very well may be God who is giving us the struggle.
 Why?
 In hopes that we would grow, that we would learn from it, that we would take this and become
 stronger.
 So when these trials come or these struggles come in the future, we're actually able to handle
 them better.
 We're able to make better decisions.
 We're able to self manage our own emotions.
 But here's what happens in so many people's lives.
 The struggle comes, the trial comes, the metal gets heated up, our impurities come to the
 surface.
 And instead of just wiping them right off the top and making it better version of ourselves,
 a more pure, healthier version, we drag that draw right back down into our metal.
 We choose to have the same horrible responses or bad responses or emotional responses or unhealthy
 responses.
 Instead of in the moment being able to get rid of the impure response, instead of being able
 to make smart decisions, again, as you think about what Franco said, in that space where you
 can choose a different response.
 Instead of doing that, we have a tendency to reach right up, grab that impurity, that
 unhealthiness, and drag it right back down inside of our cell.
 This is the opportunity for us to become more pure, for us to become refined, for us to make
 better decisions.
 Instead of doing so, we respond the same way over and over and over again.
 Now, one of the biggest reasons we do this.
 As I say this, everybody who's listening to this that's been through next level of life,
 that has ever discovered that they experience this, knows what it felt like when they learned
 this.
 Everybody hates to hear this about themselves or discover this about themselves, but they can
 sure point it out in 700 other people.
 One of the biggest reasons we do this is victim mentality.
 One of the biggest struggles we have is victim mentality.
 Now folks, I'm going to explain this a little bit to you.
 This signs physical control, I can't really control you.
 So if I can physically control you, if I can wrestle you to the ground and hold you down, then
 I have the ability to physically control you outside of that, I can't control what you think.
 I can't control what you believe.
 I can't make you feel bad.
 I can't make you feel guilty.
 I can only highly suggest that you do.
 So here's the thing, if the world keeps happening to you, if everything keeps happening
 to you, there's something you're struggling with, victim mentality.
 Why?
 Because you have decisions, you can change what's happening to you.
 If something goes wrong with something that you have, I don't care if it's your computer or
 your roller skates or whatever the crap it is, and you're responding as though you're a victim
 to this situation.
 Things just keep happening to me.
 This just happened to me.
 My boss is upset at me because I screwed up something, but he shouldn't be upset.
 Whatever it is, if your responding is though all of this stuff happens to you, I guess
 what you're not doing, taking responsibility.
 So if everything is happening to you, then I want you to ask yourself a question.
 When you're in these moments and you're having these types of responses, I want you to
 ask yourself, am I being a victim right now?
 Is this happening to me and I have no choices here?
 I have no decisions here.
 This is just going to happen and that's just the way that it is.
 Then you may be responding with victim mentality.
 There's a really good chance that you are.
 So then ask the next question, how can I take responsibility in this moment?
 Folks, everybody deals with it.
 Everybody gets in a situation where they feel out of control, the situation feels out of
 control, something feels negative wrong, whatever, and they respond with this is happening
 to me.
 Instead of in that space choosing a better response, what can I do differently here?
 What can I take responsibility?
 How could I maybe not receive this?
 So for some of you, you might have a spouse, a parent, a kid who is very controlling and manipulative
 and they make crazy suggestions to you, like you're a horrible person or you're never going
 to do good or or or.
 You're not good enough.
 Guess what?
 You can choose in that moment to receive what they're saying.
 If you do receive it, then you are what they say because it's now become your reality or you
 cannot receive it.
 Hey, I'm not going to receive that.
 Hey, that's, you know, you can keep that lie.
 Hey, I'm going to leave the room and not talk to you about this stuff, right?
 In that space, you can choose and here's my suggestion.
 My suggestion is that you must choose.
 You must choose a better response.
 Another great quote from Victor Franklin is, "Everything can be taken from a man but one thing.
 The last of the human freedoms to choose one's attitude in a given set of circumstances.
 You can always choose how you respond.
 You can always choose what your attitude is going to be.
 You can always choose.
 But if everything is happening to you, then here's what I can promise.
 You're never going to walk your way out of those emotions.
 You're never going to self-manage those emotions to become healthier.
 Things will just continue to happen to you time after time after time.
 So what's one of the great things that happens when you do start to make good decisions and
 you start to change the way you respond.
 We have one of the most fabulous quotes from a client who came through the next level of life
 not too long ago.
 She said, "You know what?
 It's really tough work not being a jerk."
 That folks do you, well that's funny and that's hilarious and you know what, maybe there's
 times that she is being a jerk.
 What's the great thing about that comment?
 She's working at not being a jerk.
 She's working at getting past herself.
 How powerful is that?
 That is exactly what I'm talking about that in that space you choose your response.
 You recognize the surface level of response.
 You recognize that you're either feeling out of control or you're trying to control whatever
 is going on and you choose a different response than you would normally, the healthier response
 compared to the normal unhealthy response.
 So we're going to talk a little bit about that when we talk about believing the lies.
 We're going to do that when we come back right after this.
 Hey folks, here's the deal.
 Every business has a culture, but are you leading yours intentionally or settling for whatever
 comes in the door?
 If you're finally ready to create the company culture you've always wanted, then you're
 going to want to sign up for my free digital video series creating a culture of champions.
 I will personally guide you for 10 days to get clarity on the culture you desire and lead
 your team to embrace it.
 You can sign up at crsacrido.com/culture lesson.
 Again, if you're ready to make a change sign up for my free digital video series creating a
 culture of champions at crsacrido.com/culture lesson.
 We are back and we are talking about self-managing our emotions.
 We have a great quote from Epictitas.
 Don't know who that was, but great fantastic quote.
 We're now disturbed not by things that happen, but by their opinion of the things that happen.
 Think about that.
 Men are disturbed not by the things that happen, but by their opinion of the things that happen.
 One of the biggest and toughest issues that we face when we are self-managing our emotions is
 recognizing something that we rarely ever even know exists.
 That's the lies that we tell ourselves.
 A lot of times you will hear it as negative self-talk and that's absolutely true and sometimes
 negative self-talk can still be truth.
 It's just said in a very negative way, but folks, one of the big powerful things we do at
 next level of life is we have people work through the lies that they tell themselves
 and every single person tells themselves lies.
 Every single one of us has an opinion of how things are happening to us or what the thing is
 that's happening or how people think about us or how people feel about us.
 Everybody lies to themselves.
 We live with people training us as we're growing up, the negative things about themselves.
 We see people lie to themselves.
 We see people lie to other people.
 We see people tell people things about themselves that aren't true.
 We watch people set people's reality all the time.
 We also, if you're a believer, are living in a broken, sinful world.
 And in a sinful world, one of the things that happens is we lie.
 Even if just to ourselves, we tell ourselves terrible things like I'm stupid, I'm not good
 enough.
 I'm not worthy enough.
 Nobody loves me.
 Nobody likes me.
 I'm ugly.
 I'm fat.
 I'm toothed.
 Whatever the lie is in there are tons.
 I'll never be good enough for my parents.
 I'll never be good enough for my spouse.
 I'll never be good enough for my kids.
 I'll never be good enough period.
 All of these things are lies that we tell ourselves.
 Now you might resonate on one of those and go, no, I've had a parent tell me I'm not
 good enough.
 No, I get it.
 This is what we do.
 This is how we help people, right?
 But if you had somebody who tells you you're not good enough, then guess what?
 They're the ones struggling.
 The problem is what happens with us?
 We go through life, telling ourselves all these lies in creating a false version of ourselves.
 Not the authentic version.
 One of the most powerful things we do in next level of life is help people to see who their
 authentic version is, what their authentic version looks like and then we contrast it with
 the surface level responses that they're choosing and the lies that they're telling themselves.
 And it is an exciting moment of seeing their authentic self and a painful moment of recognizing
 what they keep choosing instead of their authentic self.
 Why?
 Why do we continue to tell ourselves lies?
 Why do we continue to tell ourselves how horrible we are?
 These are force of habit processes.
 These are choices that we keep making to tell ourselves negative things to tell ourselves that
 we're not good enough.
 So here's what I want you to do.
 In any of these moments, in any of these struggles where you're feeling something emotionally,
 or you're feeling emotionally out of control or you're feeling that the situation around
 you is out of control or you're feeling like you're about to lose worth to somebody or you're
 feeling like you're about to be a failure or or or ask yourself a question.
 What lies am I telling myself right now?
 Quite often when I'm helping somebody through a process, I can see them.
 I can see their response that they're going into lies.
 And instead of trying to talk them out of anything or talking through anything, I just
 ask them a simple question.
 Hey, what's the lie you're telling yourself right now?
 And you see their eyes get big because it's like, oh, how did you know that I was doing that?
 And then they recognize, oh my gosh, I am doing, I am telling myself a lie.
 Well, I'm telling myself that I'm going to be a failure in just a moment, or I'm telling
 myself that you're going to be mad in just a while.
 Why in the world would I be mad?
 Well, that's what I've experienced by other people.
 You know, somebody close to me, whatever.
 We tell ourselves these lies and it holds us back.
 And it keeps us from being our authentic self.
 And unfortunately, because we are the ones telling ourselves these lies, this isn't coming
 from somebody else, we're the ones who are making all this stuff up in our own brain.
 We are the ones holding ourselves back.
 We are the ones grabbing that dress and sucking it right back down into our metal.
 We are the ones grabbing those those impurities that unhealthiness that toxicity and keeping
 it right inside of us.
 Instead of recognizing it ourselves on the front, what am I doing?
 Am I lying to myself?
 What's the truth here?
 What are the actual truths to this?
 Why am I struggling with this?
 And then working to get rid of those impurities, working to get rid of those toxins.
 So here's a deal.
 Before opinion, your perception, your perspective on what you're going through may be one of
 the biggest hurdles you're ever going to have to jump over.
 Because it also very well may be big lies that you're beating yourself up with.
 You have to battle the lies with the truths.
 Now, what we tell people, again, this is a very long process, but what we tell people is the
 truth is almost never the opposite of the lie.
 I'm not good enough.
 Oh, the truth is I am good enough.
 Now, that doesn't actually help.
 You have to discover why you're telling yourself the lie that you're telling yourself.
 So if I'm around somebody and I feel them being judgmental and the immediate place I go
 to is I'm not good enough, then it doesn't really help to go, I am good enough that doesn't
 solve the problem.
 All of us can see the what we've got to get to that why.
 Why am I struggling right now?
 Oh, I feel like this person is judging me.
 Well, if this person is judging me, what are they judging me on?
 Did I do something wrong?
 Did I do something bad character?
 Did I do something that hurt them?
 If the answer is, nope.
 They're judging me because they don't like the color of my shirt.
 They're judging me because they don't like the food that I'm eating.
 They're judging me because whatever.
 And guess what?
 You have an opportunity in that space to choose a different response.
 And what that should be is why am I losing worth to this person's judgment?
 I am good enough.
 I am not good enough because this person doesn't like the food I'm eating.
 I am not good enough.
 All of my double negatives I'm throwing in here because this person doesn't like the clothes
 that I'm wearing.
 That does not make me not good enough.
 What does make me good enough?
 The fact that I am created in the image of the king of the universe.
 The fact that he loves me, I'm fearfully and wonderfully made.
 The fact that he cares about me so greatly that he took away all of my sense so I could
 spend eternity with him.
 Oh, I'm good enough.
 I know I'm good enough.
 The thing I've got to get past is using those truths to beat up the very lies I'm telling
 myself, which is what's the real lie.
 I'm not good enough because this person doesn't like something about me.
 And the truth is that didn't do anything that was horrible.
 Well, depending upon really what the shirt look like.
 I mean, maybe it's a really, really bad offensive shirt.
 All right.
 Last thing.
 One of the toughest things for us to understand is when we feel out of control.
 Now I have had some great conversations with team members.
 When you look at this concept of feeling out of control, different personality styles look
 at it different ways.
 So if you are a high D and I, even an S, you can kind of understand that feeling out of control
 is that feeling of I'm not in control in this moment.
 But when you get to a high C, a lot of times they don't experience the phrase out of control.
 What do they experience?
 Frustrated.
 No, I'm in control.
 I'm frustrated with the situation.
 And sometimes they don't look at how's my response is my response showing that I feel out of
 control.
 But instead, so for a lot of folks, if you look at it this way, when you are
 in a situation and you can tell that emotionally you're responding in a way that's frustrating,
 that is maybe you're angry, maybe you're responding with barbs or maybe you're responding
 by saying some things you really shouldn't say.
 No matter what it is, start asking the questions, am I in control of me?
 Am I in control of the things around me?
 Like those are two different things.
 The first place you need to start is am I in control of myself?
 Well, I'm saying some pretty harsh things right now.
 My blood pressure is rising.
 I just threw out some pretty heavy barbs at somebody, whatever it is, I actually must be feeling
 like I'm not in control.
 Even though I'm telling myself I am, because look at my responses, right?
 So you have to ask yourself if you are having those types of surface-level responses and
 their a reaction, it's a force of habit response.
 You're not choosing healthier responses, then you're probably feeling very out of control
 in the moment.
 And we have to learn what we do with that, right?
 As we've talked about, you start making better decisions.
 We talked about this in the first couple of things.
 You have to start talking to yourself, talk your way through the lies, start making sure
 that you're actually managing your own emotions in that process.
 But here's the other part of this.
 What if it's somebody else?
 What if somebody else is unhealthiness?
 What if somebody else is desire for control?
 What if somebody else is toxicity?
 Is suggesting that you are really out of control?
 Can you control the other person?
 Can you control the other person?
 Should you control the situation?
 Whenever we feel out of control, we try to control one of two things.
 Either people or outcomes.
 All right?
 If I can control the person, I can get back in control.
 If I can control the outcome, I will feel in control.
 So here's a deal.
 Don't try to control the other person of the other situation.
 Control you.
 Think responsibility and ownership for you with what's going on with you.
 If you are feeling self-protective in the moment, why?
 What are you trying to protect from?
 If you're feeling defensive in the moment, why?
 What are you trying to defend?
 Well, of course, it's really tough when somebody is just being controlling and manipulative
 and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
 I get you.
 This is what we do, right?
 But here's a deal.
 You can put healthy boundaries in place with that person.
 But you're never going to put healthy boundaries in place with a toxic person if you are
 responding out of control.
 The last thing you're thinking about is health.
 Instead, what you're thinking about is how do I control the situation?
 How do I get the right words out?
 How do I make them hurt because I'm hurting in this moment?
 All of those pieces.
 How do I defend myself to the end of the group?
 What if I deflect this direction?
 How about I deflect this direction?
 How about I take us off course and change the subject and end and end and end?
 All of those things are driving you to use emotion to try and control the situation.
 Instead, here's what I want you to do.
 As we talked about in the other areas, start asking yourself, am I being a victim?
 Start asking yourself, what are the negative things I'm saying to myself?
 Whether lies that I'm telling myself, take ownership of you in the moment.
 Start managing your emotions in the moment.
 What am I experiencing right now and how am I choosing to respond?
 Let me fix that.
 If you can do this and I know you can do this, we teach people to do this all the time.
 Then the next great thing can happen.
 You can put healthy boundaries in place with the other person.
 All of my high-ess is out there.
 Whenever we talk through this, there always go, oh gosh, that would be so difficult.
 Folks, I am a high-ess.
 I'm a very high-ess.
 I'm somebody who now has greater confidence because I work through the very things that I'm
 teaching you.
 I may put a healthy, healthy, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced, balanced
 Mainly for me, but sometimes it's to help them.
 A lot of times it'll diffuse the situation.
 I'm sorry I'm being a victim right now.
 I'm so struggling with that.
 I'm so struggling with pride.
 There have been multiple times and staff meetings over the years that I've worked through something
 I'm sorry.
 That was very prideful.
 To call my own self out, to make sure that I am dealing with my emotions, that I am managing
 my emotions.
 Because when I do, then I'm no longer focused on me.
 Here's a crazy thing.
 It is virtually impossible to put healthy boundaries in place when the only thing you're
 focused on is you.
 Why?
 Because it makes it really difficult to evaluate the situation with the other person.
 It makes it really difficult to evaluate what the healthy boundary needs to be.
 One of the things I do all the time, but I've lived a life.
 I've given this way on the show before.
 So folks come through and they don't fall for it as much anymore.
 There's times I will call something out when I walk through the struggle that they're having
 or somebody being controlling or manipulative or something.
 Then I'll just go into, why don't you wear that shirt?
 That is the most butt ugly shirt you could have possibly worn.
 You can watch their response turn inward immediately.
 You know, don't know that this is coming.
 There will be like, what's it?
 I thought it was a no-case shirt.
 It's just the shirt.
 I'm like, why are you receiving what I just said?
 Why are you receiving the thing that I just said about your shirt?
 Instead, evaluate what's going on.
 Did you come to me in next-level life for me to give you fashion advice?
 No.
 Then is it okay for you to say Chris, you can keep your opinion about my clothes to yourself?
 Help me with the way that I think.
 Help me with the struggles that I'm having right now.
 That is being healthy.
 If somebody is choosing to be controlling or manipulative or abusive to you, you do not have to
 stay in it. You do not have to receive it. Why do so many folks that are really abused,
 not leave their abusers?
 Because their abusers have become just masters at manipulating their minds by highly suggesting
 that they will do so horrible without them, that they are terrible people and that
 everything is their fault.
 If they ever leave, then they will fall apart and they will die and they will just be all of
 these things that abusers do.
 Folks, you don't have to receive that.
 You can put a healthy boundary in place and shut it down, but in order to do so, you have
 to take ownership of you.
 You have to take control of you.
 This here's a deal. When it comes to other people and other situations, controls an illusion,
 I can only control my sorrow. I can physically control you if I can physically control you.
 Outside of that, I can't control you.
 Can't control your thoughts.
 Your feelings.
 I can only highly suggest that you feel away.
 So if you will gain control and you will take ownership of your feelings, then guess what?
 You can start putting healthy boundaries in place with other people.
 When you do not have those boundaries, when you do not have healthy boundaries, then you enable
 other people to continue to attack.
 Then you enable other people to continue to control and manipulate.
 Then you enable yourself to stay the victim.
 And when you stay the victim, you don't grow.
 When you enable others, here's the crazy thing. They don't grow either.
 So we don't allow victim mentality in our office.
 We will call it out.
 We will teach people, hey, listen, take responsibility.
 Are you a victim to that situation?
 We don't do it in a mean horrible way.
 When you see somebody being a victim, you ask a question, hey, you feel like a victim?
 Are you a victim to the situation?
 Is this situation happening to you?
 And you will see people just immediately go, no, because they realize, I'm acting like a victim.
 We talk about the stuff all the time around here.
 We don't play the victim mentality.
 We don't play the blame game here.
 Instead we teach our people to grow with responsibility and to take ownership.
 We teach people about healthy boundaries in place.
 We don't get caught up in cycles of immaturity around here because if we do, then we never
 get past ourselves and we never get onto what really matters and that is helping people helping
 you.
 If we stayed stuck in the solid time, how could we possibly help other people to get out of it?
 So folks, if you are struggling with emotions, if you are struggling with managing your
 emotions, if you've felt out of control or you felt stuck, that's probably the place
 that most of you recognize is it?
 You feel stuck in life for stuck with your situation, then please know that we are here to help
 you.
 We've got the processes and the resources designed to take your life to the next level.
 That's why we do this, so let us help you get there.
 That is why we are here.
 So if you would like that, go to christlacrido.com and click on next level life and just get the
 information.
 Here's what I can promise you.
 We can help you to overcome all the things that we've talked about today and help you
 to self-manage your emotions.
 So christlacrido.com, click on next level life.
 Well folks, hopefully this has helped you today.
 Take this information, share it with people.
 Yep, I've just broke my own end of my show right there.
 Share this.
 Help other people who need to hear this.
 Help other people to learn that they can get past this stuff.
 Help other people to put these techniques in place today.
 You can start doing everything I taught you today.
 Let those things in place.
 Alright, back to the, back to the clothes.
 Take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life and
 join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]