 shutting down the negative voices in our heads that is on today's episode.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. Today is a fantastic and beautiful day because our fitness and health expert is on the show with us and that person happens to be
 Heather Lucco, welcome wife of mine. Welcome to the show. Thanks. We are so glad to have you on because
 well not only are you, I mean for me the best thing is you are my wife but you are a VP and our business have been for many years.
 One of our leaders in the company we have had you on multiple times but one of the things that we do is we help people with their health and fitness as well.
 A lot of people don't know that they might not understand that so what don't you explain what you do inside the business with that side?
 Yeah one of the big things that we have here is what we call the restore program which is a 90 day program where we walk people through the process of healing
 through nutrition and lifestyle choices so that they can regain that energy and that confidence back to the live and active lifestyle.
 And a big piece of this and this is men, this is women, we help and everybody in this area a big piece of this is the emotional side.
 Like as we talk about all the time through next-level life, the business side of stuff, all of that we talk through these negative voices, this negative self-talk,
 a big piece on that physical side that the getting healthy is that there is so much of the emotional side and that's why we wanted to have you on today's
 so that you can speak to that because this is something you deal with all the time right?
 Yeah I mean if you most people when they think of getting healthier they think of oh food and then they think of working out.
 But the other piece to it is mindset when you look at sports there's a big piece to that is their mindset and so it plays a huge role in your healing process.
 Yeah absolutely. All right we're going to talk more about that.
 Right after this.
 Yes.
 Next-level life is our two-day personal discovery experience. It's a one-on-one personalized event where we
 guide you through a process to help you discover your root system, to get on stuck in life and to discover what's holding you back
 from freedom and peace. Imagine this what if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose.
 What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict?
 Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years if you had clarity, purpose and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today. Now I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking
 myself is their more. There is and there is a better way and it starts with next-level life.
 You can go to Chrissacrid.com/discover to take the next step. Now if you're struggling with this
 contentment regret or not feeling good enough which most of you are, if you're filled with anxiety or your
 relationships are lacking, don't keep going through the same motions every single day. Learn how to move
 past the things robbing you of peace. Go to Chrissacrid.com/discover and take the next step.
 An excerpt from psychology today. Many people are conscious of an inner voice that provides a running
 monologue of their lives throughout the day. This inner voice or self-talk combining conscious
 thoughts and unconscious beliefs and biases provides a way for the brain to interpret and process
 daily experiences. Our self-talk can be cheerful and supportive or negative in self-defeating.
 Self-talk can be beneficial when it's positive, calming fears and bolstering confidence. Human nature
 is prone to negative self-talk, including sweeping assertions like "I can't do anything right or
 I'm a complete failure." What we talk about a lot around here is the things like "I'm not worthy,
 I'm not good enough, I'm not loved, I'm stupid, I'm not smart enough, all of these things and we're
 going to get into a bunch of that." But there are people who have positive words. There are people
 that choose positive words. Absolutely. You have the positive side and for me, you can tell when
 somebody has a positive attitude. They're smiling, they're joyous. They always look at things
 positively and you can see that in their life. You can see that in the way that they live their life,
 the way that they interact with people. You can gauge where you are by whether or not you want to hug
 them or clobber them over that. You can see where your self-talk is. Right. Or you're like "Dang,
 I really hate you, I can't compare to them." Absolutely. Then you have those on the opposite side where
 they're just everything is negative. The world is against them. Nothing goes their way and everything's
 falling apart. Here's my question. What does this have to do with better health? How, as we talk
 through self-talk, this is a big piece of what you teach and what you do, what does this have to do with
 better health? It's such a huge piece and I think people miss this piece. It truly does affect
 how healthy you are. Studies have shown that there's a 50% lowering of your risk of cardiovascular disease.
 That's crazy. Which is a huge issue. Think about that. Our world, much less our country.
 Just by thinking positive. Cancer patients, their survival rate is increased when they think
 positively. It's a simple thing that we can do and we miss it. It plays such a huge part.
 Something that's so crazy taxing on a person and their body, if you have a positive outlook,
 you have a higher chance of survival. Those are just a couple examples. You know, if you're battling
 with depression, you have tons of negative self-talk. Absolutely. That's taxing your health
 like crazy. Let's talk about why it matters. That is why it matters. Shoot. If anything else, to
 have better health, here's some huge things. We're living in times of COVID. We're living in times
 of COVID. We've got this crazy thing going on out there. You're attitude and your positivity affects your
 immune system. Let me stop you there because I want to transition to something. I know for
 a fact that you've been helping a lot of people through this because we talked about it on the show
 about the fear side. People are fearful of what's going on. They're afraid of COVID. They're afraid
 of all this crap that's going on in our country right now. You've had people that are stressing
 immensely on this, correct? Yeah. That's the other thing that I was going to hit. That's a place
 where we spend a lot of time in a store as well because stress affects your health tremendously.
 I can't stress it enough. No fun intended there. But it has a huge impact on your health.
 And so when you're operating in a state of fear and that stress is there, it releases cortisol,
 which dumps into your gut, which creates leaky gut. There's all these things that happen inside your
 body because your body is in freak mode. And so what happens when you're trying to lose weight
 is that your body holds it because it's in survival mode. Your drained, you sleep more, you feel
 sluggish. There's so many side effects to that stress that creates your health to the
 client. So, hey, obviously we got to cut out the negative cell talk. But what do we do about these influences?
 Like if we're allowing ourselves to watch the news or for allowing ourselves to focus crazy on social
 media, how are you guiding people on that? Yeah. So, it's a great question and matter of fact, I
 had that question the other day and here's what I told them. Get off it. If it doesn't
 edify you, if it doesn't lift you up, then you don't need it. And you really need to take a look at
 everything in your life. And look, does it bring me joy or does it give me, is it life
 giving or is it life sucking? Because if it's life sucking, we don't need it. I don't know about
 you, but I don't know how much time I have left on this earth. And I don't want to waste it. But it
 really loves sucking things, you know? And it doesn't mean that we're cutting out the things in the
 middle. What you're saying is the life sucking things. Right. So, like for instance, Facebook.
 If Facebook's, my Facebook feed has become just bombarded with ridiculousness. And so I literally just
 get on to check my messages, see what what messages are there for me. And then I get off.
 I'm not going to waste my time on that. It'll just stress me out. And it'll just lead me into a bad
 place. So, why do that? When I know that that will happen. And I think people don't understand
 how much that like when you're stuck in that negative self-talker that that place where you're being
 influenced by negativity, that the last thing you want to do is think about your health. The
 last thing you want to do is go for a run. The last thing you want to do is you want to go for
 carbs and sugar, right? You want to help on like how to eat a chocolate bar, eat some ice cream and
 watch a movie, right? To drown your negative self-talk. So, here's another big piece as we talk through
 things like COVID. Now, there is, you can disagree with me. I don't have any problem with that. But
 there are facts you need to understand of who it's really affecting. Right? That we have
 team members spouse sick for three days. My mom had a triple bypass. She was sick for two weeks.
 Having talking about people that have had COVID. We have a vendor who was sick for months with it. Right?
 So, it's depending upon who you are, but the people that it's really heavily affecting are people
 that are immune deficient. Yeah. That have immune complications. What does this mean when we're talking
 about all of this negativity and this bad self-talk? What does it look like when it comes to our immune system?
 Yeah. Gosh, when it comes to our, you had me back on COVID because when I think of COVID and what I'm
 telling everybody is, and I don't want to deal, I don't want to think about all the drama that's going
 around with COVID. The truth is, is that COVID is real. Yes, we know that. The reality is, I think
 if anything, it's a wake up call for the Western world that we are susceptible. And why is that? Well,
 I think majority of it is because of the way that we live our lifestyle. And, you know, we have the highest
 obesity rates. It's ridiculous that we don't take care of our bodies and we feel it full of crap.
 So when I'm looking at something like COVID and our immune systems, the best thing that you can do,
 the most responsible thing that you could do in this time, is to take care of your body. Eat the right
 things. Don't eat junk. Don't eat crap food. Get enough sleep. And when I mean enough sleep, I don't
 mean five hours. I mean, you know, get eight to ten hours of sleep, exercise and move around, get out in the sun,
 and the positive attitude is another huge piece. When you do these things, when you take care of your
 body and you eat the right things. All the things that I just said, your immune system improves.
 You know, you have a better immune system. You're not dumping cortisol into your body. You're sleeping
 enough, so your body is going through the normal repair and restoration process that it needs to
 repair its cells inside. You know, you have, it's funny because when you do those things,
 some of those symptoms that you experience that are attached to your negative mindset because you're like,
 "Uh, you know, I'm my joints are hurting and I'm just miserable." Those things start to go away because
 you're eating right and you're moving and you're doing the right things. I think a big piece,
 and we've talked about this before, but a lot of times people either don't get it or they don't want
 to get it. What the number one worst thing you can put in your body would be sugar. Yeah,
 and why do people put sugar in their body? Oh my gosh, what does sugar do? It hits the pleasure
 centers in your brain. So it's like this lovely hide that we get and then the whole reality of
 the world can go away because for a moment, we could be calm and fulfilled and it just feels
 or even joyous. Yeah. Yeah. And what's the big reason why people put so much sugar in their brain?
 Because of the negative stuff that they're experiencing. People think they want to know. Yeah,
 I just want to put it. It's a numbing mechanism. It's just like cocaine or alcohol or any other
 numbing mechanism. Believe it or not, sugar is that same thing. It's addictive. And what does it
 do to your body? How does that have? How does that play in effect on your immune system?
 Yeah. So one, it creates leaky gut. Two, your body starts to feed off of that. So your brain,
 so interesting how our bodies are created, but your body will start to send signals to your brain
 to feed me more sugar. It's like a little gremlin. It's the bad bacteria. It's the bad bacteria.
 Yeah. And what is that bad bacteria? The source of cancer, heart disease, diabetes. That's
 where that's the root of it. And so we're just feeding these diseases because we want to
 numb what's happening on the outside. Yeah. So many folks are probably listening to this and
 don't, that is not why each sugar. I know they will argue it up and down. Here's what I want to
 challenge. And I'll say if they're not, if that's not the reason, then go ahead and stop it for a week.
 Just don't. Well, I don't know if I could do that. Yeah, but I don't think I could do that.
 Because it is so you experience this all the time in restore in the programs that you're doing.
 We see it all the time. Next level of life we see it in the leadership stuff. Whenever we do events here,
 you can see the folks they bring the sugar with them. Right. They bring it with them to say,
 I know this is going to be stressful. So I'm going to need this. And it's so funny because I will
 to, you could see the woods that really use it because they bring the big bag. Multiple times.
 Man, it is so funny to me. How many times in different events,
 somebody has a call out to him once and he's the only one. He's the only one I'm calling out. That's
 going to happen. That's the only one with the pity. The pity of the other. The pity of the other
 but there's lots of, all right, I'll call it West Delta. That's it. I love you guys. You're amazing.
 But we've been in because I know these guys very closely. That's the other reason why I call them out.
 But like we could be in a event like, hey, you need that. I just know what's coming.
 It's tough. It's stressful. It's difficult. But the crazy thing is is what happens is,
 instead of dealing with the difficulty instead of choosing more positive answers in our minds.
 Instead of doing that, what we tend to do and we desire it. Every single person and
 you get away from the sugar and it's no longer your body no longer desires the sugar.
 What we do is we know that if I'm dealing with something difficult, all I have to do is throw back a little
 bit of sugar and I'll feel better about my difficult situation. And then it helps me get through
 and helps me get through. I can deal with it then. Those are the words that they use and they justify.
 Hey, I'm just doing this because. Just one soda. Just one, you know,
 Snickers bar just one. You know, it's funny. And I did it. I was there. You know, like that's what I used to do.
 We, you know, but when you get on the other side and you see, oh, wow,
 what are those things led to this health issue. Then you go shoot. How do I know that?
 Then I would have back here chose differently. But what most people will do is because they're
 not experiencing it or they don't connect what their symptoms are to that. Right. They dismiss it.
 Oh, yeah. Totally. I'm getting sick, but I can't have anything. But I can't have anything.
 We're getting sick, but I can't have anything to do with the fast food I'm meeting.
 I have PCOS, but it has nothing to do with sugar. Absolutely. Yeah. So just just so that everybody
 understands when you're dumping stuff like this and we're not even hitting GMOs. We're not even
 hitting glyphosate. We're not even hitting other bad things that are turned your body part.
 If you just look at what happens emotionally, emotionally you feel bad.
 Emotionally you're feeding yourself with negative self-talk. Physically you can have a tendency
 to start shoving in things that will deteriorate your body faster, which starts shutting down your
 journals, your thyroid, all these different parts that cause immune deficiencies. Right.
 That cause your immune system to really struggle in suffer. So how do you help people that are?
 You're trying to help them with their health. You're trying to help them with their physical body.
 But they're using things to numb because of the emotional state, because of the negativity that
 they're experiencing. Yeah. Well, the big thing is to make that connection. So we'll walk through,
 you know, we'll walk through their food long and see, oh, you wait, sugar here or you really just carb
 out here. What was going on there? What was happening during your day? Oh, I had a stressful call
 with my boss or this happened. You'll see that there's connections to high stress or I just was feeling
 crappy. I didn't sleep well. I was grumpy and so then we'll, we'll press into... So by looking at
 their food choices... I can look at their food choices. They can see their mental state. See,
 hey, what was going on and pull out where they were emotionally and where their mindset was.
 And then we hit that mindset piece. How did that help you? You know, what could you do differently
 in that moment? How did you get there and how do you train yourself to get out? And so we walk through
 those steps of retraining and a lot of it. It's what we teach in next level of life is start replacing
 that negative self-talk. And those lies is what we call them with truth. Yeah, absolutely. All right.
 So here's what we're going to do. When we come back after this, we're going to talk about the four
 kinds of negative self-talk. Hey folks, here's the deal. Every business has a culture. But are you
 leading yours intentionally or settling for whatever comes in the door? If you're finally ready to create
 the company culture, you've always wanted, they're going to want to sign up for my free digital
 video series creating a culture of champions. I will personally guide you for 10 days to get clarity on the
 culture you desire and lead your team to embrace it. You can sign up at crsacrido.com/culture
 lesson. Again, if you're ready to make a change sign up for my free digital video series creating a
 culture of champions at crsacrido.com/culture lesson. We are talking about the, that there's not just
 one type of negative self-talk. And you shared right before the break, one of the things that we hit
 a lot in next level of life is battling the lies with the truth. And we get through, we have this
 process that gets us to this place of seeing what that negative self-talk is. But there's technically
 four kinds of negative self-talk. Why don't you hit those? What does that look like? There are four basic
 negative self-talk buckets that we can throw these things in. We kind of hit on a few of them earlier.
 The first one is black and white thinking. That's what I was talking about. It's good or it's bad.
 Sweet or sour. It's one or the other. There's no happy medium there for that person.
 I'm either happy or I'm sad. Yeah. Like one thing happens in your day and your miserable rest of the day.
 That's it. There's no room for, okay, that thing happened. Let me move on.
 Yeah. That's a funny because, wow, I'm going to go, I'm going to go way back for a few years
 where there was a time that you and I were work. We had an issue with one of our events.
 And you were stressed out and you mean, how could I possibly? And it was an interesting moment
 because we talked through, okay, this was a big problem. This wasn't something small. This wasn't
 something tiny. But it was also something that we could fix. I was practicing for one of the events.
 And I had music on and so I'm going through my lesson and all that kind of stuff.
 And I'm down on the other end of our event space and you're on the other, the other opposite end.
 And I'm dancing and kind of singing as I'm working through because yes, that's what I do.
 I have a tendency to dance. Interesting way to practice. It is an interesting thing.
 Yes, I dance in the kitchen. I dance, you know, anyways. I'm not saying a dance well, but, you know,
 no comment for my wife. Okay, there we go. And it's interesting because you started, you said,
 how can you be dancing right now? Yeah, because it's like, wait a minute, we're in freak mode.
 You're supposed to be in freak mode with me. And I couldn't, I couldn't handle the task
 and have that positive mindset at the same time. It's like I had to be, I had to be freaked out.
 Because if I wasn't freaked out, then I felt like it appeared to the team that I didn't care.
 And so if you didn't appear, if I didn't appear stressed and take on that weight, then I just didn't think it was
 important. And so it was very black and white there. Yeah, it was just, this is how it has to be. This is the
 way it is. So I'm going to be stressed out. And for me, I cared the stress. It was a rocky thing.
 I just look at it and go, well, we got to fix it. We just, so just fix it. And I think the thing I
 did, that's the difference between that positive mindset and going to the negative and sitting in the
 negative. Yeah, and I think the thing I asked is how is the stressing helping you solve the problem. You
 want it's literally not helping me at all. There you go. So dance a little bit. Yeah. It doesn't mean
 that you don't have the importance. It doesn't mean that you don't apply the correct amount of pressure
 to the situation. If you've got to move faster, if you've got to make it, if everything else
 has got to take it back burner while you solve the problem, but you don't have to be so black and
 white. What else is there? Yeah. So the second thing, and this one I see a lot is personalizing the things
 around you. So it basically this is you blame yourself for everything. Everything that happens is all
 your fault and you become the negative Nancy. You know, pour me everything bad is happening to me.
 That's a big mentality. And that's huge. You see it a lot in people.
 Oh, we, it is. You can get caught in it. Yeah, you know, and in next level, it's the, it's the thing
 people hate to see the most. It's the last thing. They're like, I know 400 people who are victims.
 Oh crap. I'm a victim too. No, please tell me I'm not a victim. Because it's the last thing you want to see.
 And the reason why is because you know how bad it looks when you see somebody else that
 everything has happened to them. Everything. Oh my gosh. Well, it was me. Everybody is doing these
 things to me. And it's like, would you please suck it up and you know, get over yourself. Not everything
 is happening to you. That does not mean that bad things don't happen to you. And you also, you're also
 blaming yourself. And so you, you really start that negative mindset really kicks in there. Because then you
 start telling yourself, you are horrible. You suck. Nobody loves you. You know, there's this spiral
 of negativity that happens for me for the longest time. And it still pops up every now and then that guilt
 mindset of, oh, I'm the, I'm the fault of why this has happened to somebody. I have,
 I could have absolutely zero to do with it. But that place of this is my end praise God. We do the
 things that we actually teach around here because we're able to get through those responses
 pretty quickly. What else is it? Number three, only focusing on the negative of situations.
 Oh my goodness. Have you seen like scroll through Facebook or I know a couple of people
 where they could have amazing blessings going on in their lives? But they're only focused on what
 didn't happen or what negative did happen. And missing or even something negative that's not even
 tied to the blessing. And missing all the good. We so get caught up in that. What else?
 Number four, everything feels like catastrophe. Oh my goodness. This is the chicken little
 disguise falling. And when you say everything, this is the, this is the, I spilled my cup of coffee
 for the love. The world is falling. Yes. Or you start breaking down and crying and bawling because
 you dropped the, the glass of milk. Yeah. You know, it is the over dramatic. Oh my goodness. I can't
 handle it. Yeah. And you know, we just pointed out a couple of small things. But let's move to something
 that's even decently big. One of the biggest things that we try to help people see is have some
 perspective. Like there's times people are like, just, oh, I'm having the struggle at my, my work or,
 you know, my, my car broke down. And yes, it is a negative thing. Right. But the response is so
 catastrophic. Mm-hmm. There's a lot of times where, you know, and what we'll do is we'll guide people
 guide guide guide guide and if they stay stay stay in the catastrophe, then we'll bring up perspective.
 Hey, you know, we just had somebody who just lost their husband. Yeah. Is this, is this the same
 situation as that? And or hey, there's people that are getting arms chopped off somewhere in the world today,
 is your car situation the same? And it's not to say and so don't hear me incorrectly, people.
 It's not to say that your problem isn't a problem. Right. I mean, we all have struggles.
 It's the struggle is real, Chris. Yeah. This struggle is real. The question is, is your response
 equal to the situation? Exactly. Yeah. So, all right, what do we do about this? So you mentioned
 something before the break about retraining our mind. What does that look like? Yeah, this is a,
 you know, you need to check yourself. Most of the time, we don't even realize that we're talking
 negative in our own way. And there is so much inner dialogue that happens in our heads when we really
 start to pay attention to it. We're talking to ourselves all day long. And when you stop and check yourself,
 you will see, oh shoot, I am more negative than I realize. And that's where you need to start.
 You know, you need to start with what is happening in that inner dialogue. Yeah. So there are
 specific things that you point people to to pay attention to to retrain their brain. What are those?
 When you are retraining your brain. So you want to check yourself, right? Yeah. So the first thing I
 will tell people to do is you want to watch for your triggers and your patterns. So you're going to
 notice that in certain situations are going to make you feel a certain way. You can anticipate those.
 You know it's go, but you know it's a lot of not all of them, but a lot of you know. But then you will learn,
 oh, this is a trigger for me. Or I have a pattern of what I'm responding to. Situation. What I'm
 around this person. Yep. It could happen at work. It could be, you know, maybe when you're overwhelmed.
 It could be around certain people. When your hand goes in the bag of peanut M&Ms. Good
 possibility. There might be a trigger may have come right before that. Yeah, I mean everybody's
 trigger is different. You know, it could be like for me one of my triggers. I love your brother. I love
 was when we were having people over. Like they were triggers there for me. Because it just brought up
 stress. And so that stress caused negative self talk to start happening. And so you have to check yourself
 and look for those triggers and patterns. Yeah, absolutely. So that's a great point. Like one of the
 things you just pointed out. So we have social engagements from time to time. We have folks that come over
 and sometimes for you in your personality style a lot of that causes you to feel how.
 Yeah, because of my personality style, I'm very routine. And so when I'm out of my routine or something
 happens, which I know is a trigger for me. Something happens outside of my plan. I will start that
 negative self talk. And the biggest negative self talk for me is everything has to be perfect.
 Everything has to be just so, you know, I want to make sure everything's done right. And if the
 house isn't cleaned or if I don't have the right food and I start to worry about everything and I start to
 get that negative and what's negative self talk. Judgment. Well, the worry is judgment, ultimately.
 And the worry in my head becomes, oh, I'm going to disappoint these people or they're going to think
 less of me, you know, if the floor isn't cleaned. But we could easily go there. And so here you
 start to create lies inside of your head because a trigger for you is being out of routine. So the
 month and you've recognized that, which is phenomenal, it's like a flip of a switch for you where when
 you recognize that it was like, oh, well, I just got to get over that. It's not just, you know,
 it's it wasn't. It doesn't mean it doesn't still come up. Yeah, it still comes up. But it's when you
 start to gain perspective. It's when I recognize that and I know and like I said in point number one,
 you start to anticipate those patterns and triggers. And then I start to talk in a positive way,
 hey, this will be fine. These people love you. You don't need to have the floor clean.
 You're opening your home. It's all going to be okay for you. The floor cleaned is...
 Well, I have to empty Rosie. Sometimes she doesn't get to eat. Rosie, the automatic vacuum cleaner.
 But for you, like, your clean, what it is when you are stressed out 99% of people are like,
 that's clean. And you're like, no, there's a spot right over there. So let me just give my toothbrush
 out and scrub this face forward. But that's what you tell yourself, right? And the truth is,
 if you were coming over to our house, you would be, you would not think, you know, and it was somebody
 else's house, you wouldn't think anything of it because it's not, it's already fantastic. But for you,
 it's not, your mindset goes to, it's not perfect. Right, right. Yeah. And so when you recognize that
 trigger and you switch that talk, then things change, your perspective changes, the stress is removed.
 You know, now I throw on music and have fun. You know, I have fun. I prepare and it's not stressful.
 Could you because I switched that tape? And I want to point out, because as we just talked about
 something that there, you know, that level of perfection for you can be that trigger. But what I want to,
 I also want to talk about responsibly. So I don't want to make sure people don't get lost in this.
 If the floor is dirty, clean the floor, right? If the floor, if there is an actual literal problem,
 not the perfection side, not the, hey, this isn't, this isn't bad. Not the old people are going to judge me.
 But like if you look down and you've got stuff on the floor and then clean your floor, take responsibility for
 the thing that needs to be done. That's not what we're talking about here. Right. We're talking about that
 negative self talk that there's no possible way the floor could be good enough is the thing that's
 happening in your mind, right? Right. So I want to make sure that people have that separated because sometimes
 I think a lot of people can go, oh, so it can be a colossal mess and I can still have positive self talk.
 You can, I probably wouldn't invite people over if you have a colossal mess, right? That's, you know,
 change that. You can have some responsibility in that. The point that I'm making is,
 is don't focus on the fear because of the judgment, right? If you have something you need to do because
 you need to do it, then just do it. What else is it? Number two, which I love, is look for humor.
 So you have to start looking for humor. You said earlier that, you know, when you prepare for
 your presentations, you dance. I love you. You know, now when I get ready for our Tuesday night
 Ecclesia, I throw music on an dance while I'm doing it. Have you ever noticed when you watch a comedy?
 Like, how good you feel afterwards? Because you've left so hard. Humor is huge. It changes.
 Your mindset. And so that's a big thing. Take a look at your day, take a look at your week.
 Take a look. Are you laughing? Are you having fun? Are you finding funny moments? If you find
 that you're spending more time in the negative and you're not laughing at anything and you are
 like so serious, that your face would crack if you smile and then check that, you know? And start to
 add some humor and some fun into your life. I want to go back to influences on this because
 you and I have noticed this. Like, if there is something, if you're sitting down and watching
 movies and they're dark and they're just nowadays, there's so much crap in today's movies. And I'm
 not saying that there hasn't been a lot of crap in movies forever. But one of the things that we
 noticed is every now and then we'll take a, you know, hey, let's let's have a movie night and we
 shifted to watching like 80s movies. And just a lot, you know, picking good ones and just laughing and
 having fun and enjoying it and because there's so much crap in today's stuff that that actually changed
 the way we would feel after watching a movie, right? But another thing that I've noticed is how
 much we laugh not only together. You and I, we laugh, it's really, it's great. How many times
 will we comment on cash? I love how much we laugh. How much fun we have. If you come into our business,
 we are, we are career dorks around here, right? We do hard work, but we have fun and we're dorks.
 Our comedy is not that great. Our jokes are not that great, but we have fun and we enjoy and we laugh.
 And I think that has had such an impact on people stepping into the culture as well as to see man.
 You guys have fun. I want to be, you get so much done and have fun. Is that even okay? Is that even
 allowed? Yeah, of course it's allowed because it's a mindset, it's a mindset. So I think you're so
 correct. If we don't laugh at some point, it's just like we got to do something. We got to change
 something, change the music, do something, have fun. What's number three? Number three, so you want to
 find positive people to hang out with. People that use around yourself with will impact you,
 whether that's negatively or positively and you need to figure out who are those people that you want to
 be around. Even your social media. So this is one of the things that I talk through, especially
 when I'm walking a client through, if they're walking through a process of weight loss,
 what you'll find is they will follow social media influencers that only post like ripdabs and
 Photoshop photos and then what happens is they get on there and they start trashing themselves.
 I am so fat, I am horrible because they're comparing. And so go through your social media
 feeds and your Facebook feeds and on follow the people that aren't again, edifying you or life
 giving to you. If they're not positive, if they're on there griping about stuff, get rid of them.
 And I can't stress enough finding a community of people who will speak life into you and hold you
 accountable when you need to be held accountable out of love. It is it's huge and we need it.
 And we need sometimes that negative mindset, we don't always catch. But when you have good people
 in your life, they can catch it for you and love you enough to go, hey, what are you doing right now?
 Struggle them, yeah. Would you say that to your daughter? Would you say that to your friend?
 Why are you telling yourself that? So find those people. We say that so many times in the next level
 life where somebody will say something about themselves and folks will use your kids against you.
 It's fantastic. We say, okay, we'll be working through some lies and somebody is getting it,
 but they're not getting it. They're telling themselves, but they don't see how impactful it is and
 why it's so detrimental. We say, okay, now we've changed this. Your daughter now says this. Oh no,
 no, no, no, no, no, I wouldn't, I would not want that for my daughter. Well, how come it's okay
 for you? And then all of a sudden it's like the bomb drops and it's, oh my gosh, there's no way I would
 allow that for my child, but it's okay if I beat the crap out of myself all day long with those those
 lies and that negative self-talk. Here's an interesting thing. We try to help people see this and
 Jim Rome said that you know, you were the some of the five people you spend the most time with.
 And you're going to look a lot like them, right? And it's very true and really the way that people
 utilize that that quote is in the business world or the success side of things, right? If you hang
 around with successful people, you're going to be successful. If you hang around people who make a lot
 of money, you're going to make a lot of money. So speaking to Christians or anybody who wants to,
 you know, we have a lot of believers, a lot of non-believers that follow us on the show. Here's what
 I want you to understand. If you're following people that if the top five people that you spend time with
 are focused on the things of this world, so if you want to be successful and you go spend a lot of
 time with people who are going out to the things of this world, guess what? That is what you're going to
 look like. So for us, the five people we spend the most time with are all seeking to have a better
 relationship with God. They're all seeking the kingdom of heaven. They are all seeking righteousness. They're
 all seeking, you know, God's love and how to help people and how to love on people. If you seek the
 things of this world, then guess what? You're going to look like the things of somebody who seeks the
 things of this world. That's what's going to be important to you. Your heart is where your treasure is.
 You're going to go after all of those things. If you seek the things of heaven, if you think,
 seek the things of God, and you put people around you like that, then you're going to be going after those things.
 It's that positive mindset in compared to if the things of this world are so important, then what's
 going to happen with your worth? It's going to tank if you don't get it. It's going to be stuck to,
 I must be successful in this. It's going to be stuck to you're going to be emotionally handcrafted.
 I have to make money. You're going to be emotionally a handcuff too. I didn't get enough stuff
 done today. You're going to be emotionally handcuffed too. I need to achieve more. I need to do more. I need to
 impress more people. I need to make as much money as the fourth person I'm hanging around with.
 If your focus is on, if your focus is surrounding yourself with positive people,
 and people that are moving in a more positive direction, the crazy thing is your desires are going to
 change. You're going to look a lot more like them. And here's one thing that I would challenge
 everybody with. And I use this technique a lot. And I love it because I've seen it work in my life.
 So there's two things. One, I challenge everybody to make a list. So list number one. So you would
 grab a pen and paper, right? Don't do it if you're driving. I don't want you to take it to a car accident.
 You have the ability to grab a pen and paper while you're driving. There's something weird.
 Do this when you get home. But you're going to make two lists. Okay? So list number one,
 you're going to write down 10 things that God says that you are. So for example, you know,
 I am called. I am made in his image. I am fearfully and wonderfully made. You know, write down who God
 says you are. And then list number two, write down 10 things. 10 of your favorite things that you love about
 yourself. So, you know, do you love your heart? Do you love your sense of humor? Do you love your smile?
 Or whatever those those things are right those down. And then I challenge everybody to create a
 gratitude journal and read through these lists every night. And then write down the things that you
 were grateful for in the day. So even if it's three things that you were grateful for. Because here's the
 thing. You can't be grateful and negative at the same time. And when you start focusing more on who God says
 you are and all the grateful things in your life that negative self-talk becomes less and less and less.
 So there's an old saying, you know, from the mouth the heart speaks. And there's an old
 rabbinic saying that is speak it until the heart believes it. And I love what you're saying there. Like even
 if you there's a lot of folks we've listened. Guys as we talk through this here's what we want you to
 understand. Those of you that are like, I don't have anything to be grateful for, Heather. That's that's
 great. That's fantastic. But I can't even think of something we understand where you're coming from.
 We get it. This is what our business does as we help people because we understand where you are. We know
 where you are. We've been where you are. That's how we're able to help. So we get it. But sometimes you
 have to understand that there is a better way in its following stuff like this, teachings like this
 of code do this thing. So if you don't have something to be thankful for, like that has been one of
 the biggest struggles for a lot of folks when we're saying, hey, you know, we teach this prayer process.
 55 and 5. Spend five minutes thanking God, praising God, talking about him, being thankful and talking
 about him. Then for people and we say this for people that really don't have much of a prayer life, right?
 Then well, I still use this system. It's just longer version. But still the same system for
 years and years and years and years. Then spend five minutes praying for other people, lifting them up,
 praying for things that they need on it. And then five minutes praying for yourself. Well, you will discover
 is when you are spending that time with God and you're thankful and you're praising Him for who He is,
 it makes it incredibly difficult to pray for things that are negative thoughts in your mind by the time
 you get to you. You pray, praise God, thank Him, pray for other people, lift them up what you find is,
 by the time you get to yourself, you're actually praying for things to be more Christ like, to be more like,
 to be more positive and all that kind of fun stuff. So it's an important thing. And when you're talking
 about these lists, what I want to make sure people understand, when you talk about listing out the
 things that you love about yourself, you're not speaking to you. I'm talking character qualities,
 you know, who you are as a person. Not the things of this world. You know, God created us.
 And so there is beauty all around us and he delights in us. But he created us with spiritual gifts
 and with you know giftings and traits and characteristics that you, it's okay to appreciate those things
 because he wired us that way. He gave those to you as gifts. So delight in them.
 Yeah. We, one of the things that we teach in the Ecclesia, is that the more you focus on this stuff,
 the more obedience you are, the more focused on God you are, the more thankful you are, the more he manifests
 those things in your life, the gifts, the talents, his will, all of that. And we get to see that on a
 continuous basis. So powerful stuff. Thank you so much for being on here. Absolutely. This is fun.
 It is fun. I love it. It's so good to have a new one and talking through that this is so much
 more than just a mindset. This affects, we didn't even talk about how it affects your family. We didn't
 even talk about how it affects your friendships, how it affects your leadership, your business. We didn't
 mean to hit any of that stuff. So, but it's a huge piece and what people need to understand is that
 it's completely in their control. You know, that inner dialogue is your life's soundtrack. So if you
 don't like what you're listening to, folks, did you say life's or wife's, my inner dialogue is so
 hold up. So if it's by wife's soundtrack or by life's. Your life's soundtrack, you know, this is,
 that's the soundtrack of your life. So if it sucks, life sucks. Change the jail, change the soundtrack
 and you, it's totally in your control to do it. And these tips and these steps will help you get there.
 Yeah, absolutely. Well, folks, here's the thing. If you know that you have that soundtrack that is
 negative, if you know that you've got some self-talk that's affecting you negatively and it's affecting
 areas of your life or it's affecting your health, it's just affecting you. Then get your butt into
 next level life. It will absolutely change your life. It will change the way you look at things,
 we give you tools to solve this stuff. We give you tools. It's about the negative self-talk. We give
 you tools. Over and over and over again, people living next level I've talked about the freedom in their minds.
 It doesn't mean that it stops. It does always have an great discussion with one of our team members
 Catherine today about how I've been doing this for so long and it's still, it's every now and then
 still pops up. I just have the tools to deal with it and I'm able to get through it fast. And those of us
 that have been doing this for a long time, you're able to walk through this stuff, I heck it a lot faster and get
 over to a lot faster. So it doesn't ever go away, you just deal with it a lot better. So hopefully this
 is helped you today. If you want to attend next level, if you just want information, go to Chrissacurl.com,
 click on Next Level Life and just get the information and pray about it. God will lead you in the
 right direction. Well folks, thank you for joining us again. You know somebody who needs this information.
 So share this with them. Also, if you would do a safavor, this is helping you. You can help us help more people.
 Help us help others. Help us help you. You could do that by going and write this on iTunes. Go
 give us a writing. That's plenty. If you want to leave a review, we will take that as well. That is
 fantastic because it helps people to know that this is something that's going to help them in their lives.
 Well, again, we're so glad that you joined us. Take this information. Change your leadership.
 Change your business. And change your life. And join us on the next step. Yes, sorry folks. We'll see you.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]