 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardos Show,
 where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 Today, back in studio is Brian Alex.
 [LAUGHTER]
 I'm surprised you let me with all the feedback we call
 the all those elements.
 So for having all of these comments that I want to say,
 I'm like, oh, that's right now.
 That's probably not a good thing to say.
 I can't say that on the screen.
 Probably can't say that on the air nowadays.
 OK.
 No, we have had great feedback from many of the episodes
 that we've had you on as well.
 So what in the world are you doing back here today?
 It's because I still don't understand stuff.
 I don't get stuff.
 [LAUGHTER]
 So Chris was like, well, tell everybody
 that you don't know.
 Let's put you on the air and tell everybody you don't get it.
 This aligns with my personality,
 so my need for control.
 Oh, speaking of which.
 Hey.
 Today we're going to talk about control.
 Sing it.
 So control.
 Thank you, Jeff.
 Can't get up that eye.
 It's misjacks.
 It's best-- well, if you're nasty.
 Oh, my-- OK.
 Well, you have just took a heavy left turn.
 Hey, we're talking about control today.
 Why are we talking about control?
 So here's the deal.
 If you've been through a next-level life, no doubt,
 the major part of your struggle was with control
 and learning that you have control issues.
 For those of us--
 Right.
 What am I hearing in your voice?
 Haven't been through recently.
 We forget that we are control mongers.
 We need to be in control.
 No.
 It is something that we talk about a lot around here.
 And if you've been through a strat plan or next-level life,
 listen to the podcast, you know that control
 is a big facet of where we struggle.
 And so-- but the issue is, we were talking in dialogue--
 just this discussion we were having in a staff meeting.
 And the idea of control came up.
 And Chris will sometimes pause and say,
 how are you feeling right now?
 What's going on?
 Do you feel like-- like, are you out of control?
 And I remember, you know, for--
 usually I'm acting in a C mode when I'm inside the doors here.
 And so when I get asked the question, Brian,
 are you out of control?
 Say, heck, no, I'm perfectly composed.
 I'm in control.
 I'm in complete control.
 You get hit with that question.
 My mind goes to, well, no, I'm not yelling.
 I'm perfectly composed.
 I'm in control.
 But that's not what you mean.
 And so I want to unpack that so that I understand what you mean
 when you say are you in control.
 Well, then I think we should unpack exactly that.
 Let's do that when we come back right after this.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 Next level, life is our two-day personal discovery experience.
 It's a one-on-one personalized event
 where we guide you through a process to help you discover your root system,
 to get unstuck in life and to discover what's holding you back
 from freedom and peace.
 Imagine this.
 What if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose?
 What would it look like to have healthier relationships
 with less conflict?
 Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years,
 if you had clarity, purpose, and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today.
 Now, I know it's possible because I've been where you are
 asking myself, is there more?
 There is.
 And there is a better way.
 And it starts with next level life.
 You can go to Chrissacrid.com/discover to take the next step.
 Now, if you're struggling with this contentment, regret,
 or not feeling good enough, which most of you are,
 if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking,
 don't keep going through the same motions every single day.
 Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace.
 Go to Chrissacrid.com/discover and take the next step.
 All right, we're back talking about Brian's control issue.
 How much time do we have people?
 This is going to be the longest episode we've ever done.
 We have a great quote by Victor Franklin.
 I believe we've used this before, but it's so profound.
 It's such a good quote.
 And if you don't know who Victor Franklin is or was,
 he was a Holocaust survivor.
 And the author of Man's Search for Meaning is Victor Franklin.
 He passed a while back.
 I will have to fact check.
 We might not have to fact check that.
 For some reason, I feel like you did maybe
 didn't force us here.
 Sorry, Victor.
 Victor's going, what the crap?
 How am I here?
 Because Victor listens to the show.
 I'm sure he does.
 He does.
 Forces beyond your control can take away everything you possess.
 Keep in mind who we're talking about here.
 A Holocaust survivor forces beyond your control can take away everything you possess.
 Except one thing.
 You're freedom to choose how you will respond to the situation.
 And that is what we're talking about.
 And a little later on, I want to talk about how David, King David,
 is perspective on control and being out of control.
 But so that's what we're talking about.
 That's what we want to get into.
 This concept of being in control, feeling out of control.
 Because really, the question isn't, are you in control?
 Are you out of control?
 Let's do you feel out of control.
 And a lot of people struggle with that concept, especially,
 and as you talk about here, when you're in house, it's usually high sea.
 You're usually in high sea mode.
 You've vastly, obviously, back and forth between C and D.
 But when you're in work mode, it's usually more your doubt that is more of a high sea.
 It's not even bipolar or anything.
 I think it does.
 I just thought I was running on two of the four cylinders.
 And you didn't even think you needed those other two.
 You don't know.
 Like those other two.
 So you're eyes of the masses.
 For get those guys.
 They like people.
 What's that good for?
 So.
 Chris is.
 I might happen to be a high sea and a high.
 You complete me.
 That's it.
 So as we look at this concept, what we want to discuss is not whether or not you are in control.
 Because there's a really good chance that the question comes up, do you feel out of control?
 You're probably already out of control.
 Right?
 What are you experiencing in the moment?
 The goal is to discover what are you experiencing?
 So as we hit this, let's kind of get your perspective of the first time I asked you that question.
 You kind of explained what went through your mind.
 What was it that you were telling yourself about being in control?
 Right.
 So my idea and some of it is just the semantics behind it.
 The words that we use to describe things.
 Maybe I was unfamiliar and maybe it's more psychological to talk about it in that frame of
 reference, but when I hear, are you out of control?
 Do you feel out of control?
 I interpret that as, okay, I kind of self-assess.
 Am I thinking rationally am I responding in a polite way or logical way or am I just completely
 emotional?
 It's just one extreme or the other.
 As you started to unpack it, you know, with little things like, is your blood pressure a little
 elevated?
 Do you feel like things aren't going your way or you're feeling some frustration etc.
 That makes sense.
 Right.
 That made so much more sense and the veil kind of dropped and goes, "Oh, okay.
 Now I get where you're getting at."
 Because your definition before that of being in control was what?
 Yeah, poised, I'm control of my faculties.
 I'm controlling my passions.
 I'm not overreacting.
 By my own estimation.
 By my own estimation.
 I'm not overreacting.
 How I see myself.
 Right.
 Because you're probably comparing yourself to somebody who goes berserk.
 You would define as being out of control and that's the person who goes berserk.
 And we would call that.
 Oh, there was completely out of control.
 Absolutely.
 That's the obvious one, right?
 They're totally out of control.
 But that is the response of being out of control and it shows up in many ways.
 One could be attitude.
 It could be emotions.
 It could be anger.
 It could be shouting.
 There's many times somebody is completely out of control and their voices come.
 But you can look at every aspect of their body and go, "You are way out of control."
 That's a lot of things.
 That's a lot of things.
 Right?
 Well, so it kind of depends.
 So high seas will usually stay in a visible sense in a posture control.
 Even though somebody who does this for a living can see just look around the body.
 No, there's a lot of pieces that are out of control.
 But many times you can have a conversation with a high sea and they leave and you think
 it was a great conversation and they walk away going, "I hate that guy."
 That guy's a total jerk.
 And you're like, "What the crap?
 I thought that went well."
 I've never said that about you.
 It looks like you.
 Thank you.
 But Joel, all the time.
 Every day.
 That guy.
 But you know, the person who's having the conversation doesn't have a clue.
 But the person walking away can struggle immensely.
 And if they're high regulatory, we talk about values on the show as well.
 What we would call motivators.
 If they're a high regulatory, they may now hold on to this for five years and throw
 barbs at you from a distance or really close.
 So that's that concept of you base your level of control, the different personality says.
 It's not hard for a high D to say, "Yeah, I feel a lot of control."
 The problem with the ideas that they can't say that they're out of control.
 So they will say, "I don't get out of control."
 Even though they know that that's not true.
 Because they lose worth, it's value, the position, whatever.
 Every personality style that comes into the building for next level of life.
 One of the first questions I asked is, "What are you afraid of?
 What are you afraid of coming into this event?"
 Because the answer is always the same.
 But if I know that it's a high D coming in, I'll go, so you're going to say that you're not
 afraid of anything.
 And they just laugh immediately.
 They drop that guard and I say, "What are you afraid of?"
 And they're like, "Wow, the answer's always the same.
 I don't know what we're going to discover."
 As if we're going to discover something that is just terrible.
 Deep dark thing that you didn't even know was there.
 Exactly.
 Hundreds of people later that has never been an issue.
 What coming in, that's a concern.
 Why is that such a concern?
 Because I'm currently out of control.
 I'm coming to do this thing and I can't control what we discover.
 That's the thought.
 That's the belief system.
 And that's why there is fear in that.
 What happens if?
 What if we discover?
 What is fear?
 There's two types of fear.
 There's the logical fear, which we say all the time, you're being chased by a lion.
 Be afraid of that.
 You don't be the slowest person, right?
 Just make sure that turns.
 You're out.
 You don't have to be out of peace.
 You just get out and you're going to be the slowest person.
 You just get out and you're going to be the slowest person.
 That's a legit fear.
 What do we spend 99% of our time?
 99.9% of our time in fear of what could happen, what might happen, the assumptions.
 And that's where we live.
 And that's what is a huge piece of keeping us out of control.
 So we have a little bit of a dichotomy of the internals versus exterals.
 We live this year in a world where we have a lot of words to try to describe the year that
 we've had.
 This is 2020, if you're listening from the future.
 From the future.
 Unprecedented, uncertain, unpredictable.
 There's a lot of things that are legit out of control.
 Not normal.
 For us, unusual.
 Radical.
 Radical is a word that is being used a ton nowadays to say that things are not natural.
 And that ideology, that whatever, is not what I believe are uncomfortable with.
 So it's now radical.
 The crazy thing is your ideology might be really close to it, but not enough.
 And so it's now radical.
 We have all these descriptors.
 And so with it being radical, all of the external stuff that feels out of control, my understanding
 is that most of us, and all include myself, the real thing.
 The action, the response to that is to also feel out of control.
 You're going to feel that fear, the uncertainty, all of that, another Victor Frankl, quote,
 "You cannot control what happens to you, but you can control your attitude towards what
 happens to you."
 So with that in mind, I can have things out of control all around me, but that doesn't necessarily
 mean that I have to be out of control.
 We say it all the time, I believe we said it on the last episode we were on together.
 I can't control anything about you except you physically.
 So when we look at a Victor Frankl, well because you're bigger than me.
 I might be a little bit bigger.
 You could squash.
 So as we look at a Victor Frankl, why were they in the situation they were in because they
 were physically now they were lying to, which they did not have to believe.
 Andy Andrews did a phenomenal.
 May everybody needs to read the book how to kill 11 million people.
 How to kill 11 million people?
 People have to do you kill 11 million people.
 What will you know what?
 We'll add that to the notes.
 We'll add a link in that.
 Oh, by the way, we got a download for this.
 I can start mentioning that stuff.
 We got a download.
 We're going to put a link in that as well.
 So if you're listening on iTunes or if you're listening in an iPod app just scroll down to the
 notes.
 So the note section you'll see a link if you're on our website then we'll have links in there
 for this title of the book.
 Yeah.
 The book.
 How to kill 11 million people?
 Here's the key.
 Hitler didn't just kill five and a half million Jews.
 He also killed five and a half million Germans and other people as well.
 The big focus on that is the lies that were perpetuated.
 So the ideology that when it was pushed so freaking hard, facts no longer mattered.
 We're experiencing that.
 Oh, I crazy in America right now that there's ideology that is being pressed so hard and
 there's so much lies to it that the facts don't no longer matter.
 Feelings Trump feelings Trump it.
 It absolutely does.
 So here's the key.
 How did the Jews, the folks that ended up in the Holocaust or the people that got killed because
 they were protecting?
 How did that happen?
 It was a physical issue.
 It was an emotional intellectual suggestion to them that people are bad, they're wrong,
 they're less than there, whatever.
 But it was the physical control that put them in this situation.
 So as you see Victor talking about this stuff, what he's saying is people can control your
 physical body that can't control your mind.
 So he's setting, you know, restrained under the wrong end of the gun.
 And forcibly restrained in his body, but what he discovered was that he could control his internal
 dialogue, what was happening inside of him, his emotions and his response.
 He could choose.
 He always had a choice of how he would respond to that circumstance he was in.
 Now, somebody out there is going, oh, you guys are so wrong because they did mind control tricks.
 Yes, we're we're putting that aside, right?
 That's not what we're talking about.
 Yes, there are some torture stuff that you can do.
 We're talking about everyday life here, right?
 You have the opportunity.
 I can control you physically if I can control you physically, but that's as far as I can
 control you.
 I can't control how you feel.
 I can't control your attitudes.
 I can't control how you think.
 I can't control the decisions you make.
 I can only highly suggest how there's something wrong with you.
 How you're not good enough.
 How you're not worthy enough.
 How you always fail it stuff.
 How you're, you know, you're sibling is better than you are.
 How you're never going to marry somebody good.
 How you're never going to make enough money in life.
 You're never going to be successful.
 I can only highly suggest that to you.
 I have to do something with that then.
 I have to receive it or I have to reject it.
 Exactly.
 The moment you receive it, now it is.
 Right?
 Now you've become that.
 Then the concept of me controlling you kind of shows up here, right?
 But if you don't receive it, as Victor saying, if you choose a different attitude, hey,
 man, I hear how you really don't think I'm worth anything.
 And I'm sorry you feel that way.
 I actually choose to take my worth from the King of the Universe.
 And he thinks I'm pretty amazing.
 So I'm going to focus on that instead of yours.
 Thank you.
 I no longer want your opinion.
 Please leave.
 I can change the way that I respond to the situation at him.
 Okay.
 So let's dig in a little bit here.
 Control is a big issue today because we feel like things are so out of control.
 But we're learning.
 We don't have to respond to all of that.
 We don't have to be out of control.
 And so what I want to ask is how do most people respond or perceive that loss of control?
 Like if I'm emoting that, it can be visible and people understand, you know, but what's
 going on internally when I'm feeling out of control, describe that so that next time you
 ask me, Brian, how are you feeling?
 Are you feeling out of control that I don't want to just fight you?
 I go, okay, I understand what Chris is getting at and he's pointing to something that maybe
 I can't see in that moment.
 Yeah.
 And that is how I ask it.
 Are you feeling out of control?
 Brian?
 Ha ha ha.
 Hey everybody, come look at Brian.
 So here's what's going on.
 There's multiple things inside.
 But usually we do talk about certain things that are quick flags for you to see.
 How's my emotion?
 How's my heart rate?
 How's my stomach feeling?
 If I'm feeling adrenaline pumping through my veins?
 If I'm feeling that I'm being cornered.
 If I feel, if I feel like I'm, I need to protect myself.
 And that's probably the biggest two pieces is feeling the need to self-protect and feeling
 the need to defend.
 Those are two big emotions that, when those crop up, you can see, what am I doing?
 If you're asking the question, what am I doing right now?
 I'm feeling like I have to, to protect myself.
 Why?
 Because maybe I feel attached or I don't understand exactly.
 I feel like I have to put a brick in the wall.
 I get to build this wall as fast as I possibly can because I must protect myself from
 what's happening right now.
 You may not even understand what's happening in the moment, but you feel the need to
 self-protect.
 The physical features are super important, but people don't pay attention to them.
 They come on in a heartbeat.
 When your brain starts operating in that self-protection mode, that defensiveness, the I can't
 lose worth, I have to fight, then you go kind of in that fighter flight mode where your body
 starts preparing yourself.
 You're either going to stay in fight this or you're going to have to fly from this.
 You're going to have to run from this.
 Well big pieces are you start to experience the adrenaline pumping.
 You start to experience your body starts going into the freak out mode that says, "Oh,
 you must lie and must be running your way."
 It's not.
 It's that your spouse said something harsh to you, right?
 But your body responds.
 You felt under attack.
 So your brain starts causing your body to prepare to run from a lion.
 Now I am not.
 Listen, there is no such thing as macro evolution.
 There is micro, but there is no macro.
 So this concept of, we evolved from sludge.
 Here we are.
 Not exist.
 If you want to talk about that, shoot me an email podcast, Chris, or that kind of a Hebrew says
 dirt.
 There.
 Well, yes, there you go.
 As we learned indeed.
 That is right.
 So the big key is that our body does is built to respond as though a big stressor is happening.
 Today there are so many things that impact our stress response.
 So let you and I are old enough to remember what it was like in the 70s and 80s when
 we were kids growing up.
 There was massively less stress response than what we were seeing today.
 It was a lot.
 So I had to wait till Dan Rather came back.
 That's right.
 That's six o'clock later Peter Jennings in order to find out what the heck is going on in the
 world.
 Why should I care?
 And I'm going to watch a funny show and I'm going to go to bed.
 So it was kind of water over that.
 Exactly.
 And if you didn't even watch the news, then the only thing you got as far as bad information
 was, if somebody decided to tell you.
 So our experience were usually with people in front of us.
 Responses at school, responses with parents, responses with family.
 Today all you have to do is turn on social media to get all kinds of crap and negativity
 pumped into your brain, which causes you to stress on a continuous level.
 So a big thing to understand is how is your body responding?
 If it's responding with frustration, there's times I have not watched the news except for one
 time on my honeymoon to see whether or not the world was falling apart.
 I stopped watching the news during the Bush.
 Oh, what's his name?
 Who invented the internet?
 I always forget.
 I don't know why I never remember.
 Did you have to forget that?
 How can I forget that?
 I was back on there running both running for president.
 I had to stop watching that I would turn on the news every morning and leave pissed.
 I was like, I'm driving to work upset.
 This happened for like a period of time.
 And I went, then definitely don't turn in now.
 You don't want to see what's going on now.
 I don't like this is stupid.
 I can't do this.
 So knowing and recognizing physically how you're responding is probably just as if not more important
 than how emotionally you're responding.
 And here's the reason why I say that.
 It's a faster indication that you are feeling out of control.
 So if your body is responding, a lot of times we will try to, you know, and we tell people,
 walk through the process in your brain, use the tools that we teach, start asking the questions,
 why what am I experiencing, what's going on, why am I feeling this way, why am I worried about
 this, and I trying to self-protect, and I trying to defend.
 Those are all phenomenal questions, but understand the fastest indicator is probably going
 to be how you feel inside.
 Right.
 So pop quiz.
 Alright, I'm going to.
 Okay.
 So this is helpful for me as a, you know, my C mode, and maybe for some of you out there, this
 is a great litmus test or a self-assess, check your attitude.
 This is going to help you understand if you are in the dialogue that we're having, the kinds
 of words that we're using here about being out of control.
 Do I often feel frustrated or angry?
 No.
 It's my communication, shortened, harsh.
 Am I overly sarcastic and just throwing barbs?
 I'm three for three, so far.
 What do you laugh at that?
 We're overly sarcastic.
 One more.
 I'm not really going to control.
 But I don't throw barbs.
 That's true.
 Right.
 Whoever barbs is, I apologize.
 It's hard.
 Is it difficult to be present and loving out?
 Is it difficult to be others focused?
 Am I often stuck in my own head?
 Okay.
 What?
 Chris, help me.
 I see, okay, it's out of control out there externally.
 A lot of times I'm feeling the things that are happening here.
 I understand what you're saying, that we're battling some lies and we can get easily
 bogged down and just tied up in all of these internal loops that are happening in our
 head.
 If I'm checking some of these boxes here, what do I do?
 Give me some tools.
 Walk me through this process.
 I'd say probably throw something.
 Okay.
 That will help.
 If you just throw the punch a wall, do something.
 You let somebody.
 That will make everything better immediately.
 The key is, it's like we're just talking about.
 Every single one of those things that you just write off, everybody listening to has experienced.
 If you are listening to this show, you've experienced.
 Okay.
 So we've all experienced loss of control.
 Absolutely.
 Right.
 Especially even if you're young, you've experienced this even if you couldn't verbalize that
 you felt frustrated angry.
 I've had toddlers.
 They felt lost.
 They've watched them.
 They've done all of them.
 They've not present in life.
 They've had the checklist.
 I checked it off.
 Throwing a bar over these sarcastic.
 Like a chew.
 You can't be present.
 The thing is is that when we are feeling these things, it does not mean that it's not
 okay to feel the things.
 Okay.
 This is the issue.
 What is our response?
 Right.
 Because if we continue down the path of feeling this, we probably, you know, the people listening
 to the show are old enough that they probably have standard responses.
 This is how they're going to response.
 They're going to get angry.
 They're going to yell.
 They're going to get frustrated.
 They're going to attack.
 They're going to throw bars.
 They're going to hide.
 They're going to procrastinate.
 They're going to, you know, show all this stuff on your rug.
 Whatever the normal surface level response is, it's coming out.
 It's going to happen.
 So the key is, it doesn't matter which one of these you're experiencing, it's, you have
 to recognize in the moment this is where I am.
 And I think that's huge.
 Okay.
 Can we just camp out for a second?
 Because, you know, depending on the root system, you may not have grown up in an environment
 where it was okay to feel whatever you're feeling.
 Yeah.
 Right.
 And I'm speaking from personal experience, dad, if you're listening.
 Sorry.
 No, but, so if you grow up like that where it's not okay to feel what you're feeling.
 Hit by the way, you're phone's ringing right now.
 I think it's your dad.
 I feel like a control right now.
 My blood pressure just went through the room.
 Thanks Chris.
 No, but if that's part of your root system, some of you know what I'm talking about, then you're
 going to be often in the situation where you know that you're struggling, but you
 don't know you haven't self-assessed.
 You haven't paused, zoom out, gain some perspective of your own self to assess, okay, this is
 what I'm feeling, why am I feeling that?
 And just take it a breath to actually feel it.
 But you know, like what we do here is we talk about, or I talk about, I don't know, maybe
 this is not what we do here.
 You check, check this.
 But I like to put it in terms of we want to be okay with our feelings and sit with our
 feelings like being in the car with it, but your feelings cannot be behind the wheel.
 Yeah.
 They can be in the passenger seat and we can acknowledge the fact that I'm angry, I'm frustrated,
 I'm feeling sad, I'm whatever, I'm feeling, but then we have to get beyond that, but we
 have to remain in that driver seat.
 Is that right?
 Or, well, let me refresh.
 Wow, you just, yeah, so you just hit a big piece.
 So let me kind of talk to you that I was just having literally having this conversation with
 a friend of mine who is a client, but we're brothers.
 We've, we've been brothers for a long time and we're just very close.
 And we were talking through like raising kids and stuff.
 And one of the most bravest and vulnerable things people can ask me is, hey, give me advice
 on my parenting.
 You know, and this was such a great question.
 We were talking through some feelings and stuff.
 And we broke the subject, which has become almost out of control in itself and ridiculous
 in what's being taught nowadays when it comes to what you need to feel.
 So this discussion, because of some people have experienced and especially my general
 generation, may have experienced parenting that was, you don't get to feel that.
 You don't get to feel that.
 Shutting that down, that when you look, you roll that forward to generation or two, what comes
 out is, it is your responsibility to feel all of your feelings.
 You can't shut down your feelings.
 You can't stop your feelings.
 And it has become this kind of what we call a pendulum swing.
 One side is unhealthy.
 And instead of going to health, it swings all the way over to the other side, which becomes
 unhealthy on that side.
 So what am I talking about?
 There are so many people that teach that you can't shut down feelings.
 You should not stop feeling unhealthy.
 It's unhealthy.
 It's unhealthy.
 It's unhealthy because the only option is to stuff it.
 And what they're completely missing, it's this crazy thing.
 It's that they're missing the, what do you do with the feeling?
 How do you approach the feeling?
 How do you discuss the feeling in your head?
 How do you figure out the feeling?
 So what we have is this horrible teaching that no you need to feel everything you're
 feeling.
 To shut that down is horrible and it's bad.
 Why?
 What if you did stuff the feeling?
 What's so bad about it?
 What is it leading to, right?
 My suggestion isn't that you stuff the feeling.
 But what they're teaching is feel the feelings.
 And so now we have a couple of generations that are growing up entitled that are growing
 up believing that they can do no wrong, that no is not a response that they should hear,
 that somebody else is supposed to take care of them.
 We're seated that their feelings are perfectly valid, that they should be able to not only have
 their feelings, but respond however they do respond to the feeling.
 So as we were talking about this, the subject of, you know, well what happens when a child
 buss out with frustration or, you know, if a child responds with, you know, crying or whatever.
 And the key is that it's okay to feel the feeling, but let's get in and actually talk to
 the child about what's going on.
 What are they experiencing?
 Now we're not, obviously we're not talking about a, you know, one year old sitting in a
 hijay, right?
 We're talking about if the child learns to respond that I did not get my way.
 Therefore I cry, I yell, I have an outburst and you try to rationally talk to that child,
 what you're doing is you're teaching that child.
 This is the right response.
 Right.
 They're attaching that response to that feeling and then when they become adults behind the wheel
 of a car and someone cuts them off on the freeway.
 Outburst.
 What we don't understand, and this is one of the things that we will ask all the time.
 Hey, is your response equal to the situation?
 Can I have a piece of gum?
 No, I don't want that to ruin your dinner.
 Outburst.
 Hey, can we talk about this?
 No, there's no, hey, can we talk about this?
 That response is unacceptable.
 Whether you're frustrated, you can feel frustrated.
 You, I don't mind if you feel frustrated.
 You can be frustrated that I won't let you have a piece of gum.
 You will not have that response.
 That outburst is unacceptable.
 It's inappropriate.
 It doesn't match the situation.
 Exactly.
 Now, another kid comes up and punches you in the gut outburst perfectly acceptable.
 That's great.
 That's fine.
 You fall off your bike and scrape up your knee.
 Try.
 It's perfectly acceptable.
 That's what it's to me every day.
 That's right.
 That's why you keep going through bikes as fast as you do.
 What is wrong with this?
 Nefads, people maybe don't ride bikes.
 Maybe.
 That's not right.
 So the key is not the feeling the feelings.
 This is where we make a massive air in parenting.
 This is where we make a massive air in leading people.
 This is where we make a massive air in leading ourselves.
 This is this ridiculous concept that I'm supposed to feel the feeling.
 You don't have to.
 Look at Victor Freggle.
 You can make a choice to go hold on a second.
 I'm not a victim here.
 So what if I didn't get a piece of gum?
 So what if I didn't get the promotion?
 So what if this guy cut me so what?
 So what if I'm frustrated?
 Get over it.
 It's not stuffing a feeling.
 It's actually talking your way through, hey, that's ridiculous response.
 If somebody cuts you off, one of the things I've been noticing over time now, I may drive
 a little fast.
 Is it they've known to drive a little fast?
 Is that people?
 I'm watching people now control other people with their cars.
 It's I've only seen that over the last like year and a half to two years.
 Where you're watching people control people with their cars on a consistent basis.
 Now we're in Tennessee.
 It's probably been happening in California for a decade.
 Why is our road warrior?
 I mean, Matt.
 Yes, that's it's all control.
 Absolutely.
 California, right?
 Right.
 Absolutely.
 We're just going to pick out one of the people.
 Yeah.
 I happen to be from there so I can talk about it.
 So when you look at that response, what's happening inside of the person that they are convincing
 themselves that they're feeling is valid enough to try and control somebody with a
 freaking vehicle?
 Yeah.
 That is somebody who has never been taught that their response is not okay.
 You can be frustrated.
 You can be upset.
 You don't.
 It's okay to feel you're feeling, but you do not get to respond that way.
 It's amazing.
 So what you're describing here, you know, to use Victor again, Victor if you're listening.
 Well, sent you royalty check yours.
 No, what what what what what we're doing is yeah, at least a little bit of a silo
 swag.
 That's right.
 He's restrained physically has no freedom and is out of control.
 It has no control over the external.
 Yet inside he is in a quite different context.
 He is experiencing freedom.
 How is that possible?
 And, you know, this is exactly what you're describing.
 As we give up so much internal freedom all the time thinking that we're in control of things
 that we are not in control.
 It is an illusion.
 And when we believe that we've got strings attached to everything and that we're controlling
 externals, we're really the ones who are bound up inside.
 Exactly.
 One of the things I want to hit in using Victor again is gaining perspective.
 Only times when I'm helping somebody who's having an outburst, a response that is nowhere
 near equal to the situation, one of the things I'll ask that question, hey, is this response
 equal to the situation?
 And as they walk through it, one of the things I'll say, hey, you know that somebody is getting
 their head chopped off somewhere around the world today.
 Somebody has got their hands cut off.
 Somebody has been brutally beaten.
 Somebody has been raped, molested.
 Somebody has been persecuted on just, there's things going on and you're crying over the fact
 that your parents didn't give you a BMW on your 16th birthday.
 Let's really think about how horrible your life is.
 And that's not just a suck it up, but it's not.
 That is a putting things into perspective.
 Looking at things, circumspecally and understanding, okay, does my response really equate
 to what I'm going through right now?
 Exactly.
 And the key is, so for me, so much of my life.
 And I grew up with, you know, somebody's always got it worse than you do.
 I love that saying.
 People who are victims hate that saying.
 When I didn't finish the food on my plate, I was reminded.
 They're people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who
 are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who
 are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people
 who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 and who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who
 are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are
 people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are people who are