 Welcome to the show folks. We are glad that you are joining us and again I say us
 Because welcome back to the show have the liccardo. Thank you
 Well, I thank you
 You look welcome back to the show. Joel Forder glad to be here so good to have you guys back as we are on our second episode
 of raising up leaders and it is so funny we put this episode together
 We're not even I mean we're not even close. We're just scratching the start there's a lot of information
 And the thing that we left off on last time is the you know if your identity is stuck if your if your your worth
 Is stuck and you being able to solve problems for your team you the one being the one that has all the answers
 Then one of the big things is you're never going to be able to lead great leaders
 You're never gonna raise up great leaders
 It's just impossible if that's where you are stuck and today we're gonna jump into a whole lot of stuff trust
 We're gonna talk a lot about killing the leadership crazy cycle what that was like
 More great stuff on you guys being raised up as leaders on this journey
 So we're gonna hit all that stuff when we come back right after this
 Welcome to the crystal card show where we discuss leadership and life and
 Discover that business is what you do not who you are
 All right, we're back and the end of the last show Joe you raised a fantastic question for our listeners and what you said
 Well just say what you said what we were talking about one of the things in terms of mindset and belief is that if you're needing to be led on something
 If you're leading me on something whether it's say a failure that's happened, you know something on the teams not going well or whatever
 It has asked yourself the question why did I need to be led on that because it's a personality
 Erick's a personal responsibility driven question yeah, and then Heather we talked about how a great time early on in your leadership on the team is you
 You brought something up and I looked at you and Joe just said
 You know what he's going to ask you next which was just so funny. We all laughed about that
 We laughed we talked about on the last show
 But we ended the show and you went on with some gold so bring up the stuff that you were talking about when we ended the show
 Yeah, so I was just saying when Joel had brought that up
 That that question to question yourself. Hey, why did I need to be led in that?
 I remember him telling me that and it was such a powerful moment for me
 Because it brought about that awareness, you know, and and you can't change unless you're aware of what's going on and so it was
 It's key I think into changing your leadership or growing as a leader
 At least it was for me
 So here's what I want to hit now because I think there's so many things
 We might have to even do another episode here
 It's so much good stuff
 Let's talk about trust. I mean you guys are my best friends
 Right at least one of you better be yeah, I am Chris
 I commit publicly here
 Yeah, I scout solder
 No, no, no, the hunger games
 What is oh gosh?
 I volunteer
 It's a dream
 That sounds so painful. It's like I just yes, I do
 See what's again. I offer myself
 You didn't even miss anything so far
 I thought you just that's also
 So let's talk about trust because that is huge for us. I mean, we all know it's so funny
 I think it was Aaron West who brought this up no no no, it's something I read somewhere
 I don't even remember
 But forever, you know, were the type of people would say you know, I would take a bullet for you guys
 I know you guys would take a bullet for me
 Heather you probably wanted in the lake or something off the arm
 Something
 Would you take it on the chest for me? Would you take a
 Okay
 You know, were the kind of folks that would do anything for each other and then I don't remember where I saw it
 We were in Bible study
 Was it Aaron who brought it up in Bible study
 Or did I read it some I doesn't matter the point is is what I read is it's one thing to say that you would die for somebody
 It's a whole another thing to say that you would live for them
 And I think that was so profound for us as we were talking through gosh
 That is huge and I
 One of the things I feel like I can say is I feel like this team
 We do live for each other not you know not
 Completely but faith walk what we do here or here for each other will do whatever for each other
 We'll you know will make whatever happen
 So I wanted to kind of hit that trust factor with you guys what is trust like on our leadership team
 What is it like on the rest of our team how do we get here what is vulnerability like
 Speak to all that stuff
 Yeah, it's it's that's it really all comes back to that because without trust you really have nothing
 You'll get only get 25% of out of your relationships and out of your performance when there's just a lack of trust and
 That's something we've invested a lot in over the years is building up trust and
 Because we all have to work through self protection. We all have to work through the system
 We all have to work through this stuff that we all have to work through contributing to conflict in conversations
 That can you road trust
 But we've we just spend a lot of time together. I mean
 Gosh Chris, I mean we got
 Started in our relationship because of my wife. I mean we you know of course we met and we become friends and we start building this relationship
 But on a leadership team that it takes a while for that trust to be built up
 Especially if yourself protective or if you struggle with things like victim mentality
 Which tells you nope you can't trust that person because they're out to get you like Heather
 You talked about stuff that that best especially when you came on to the team and then in myself as well
 of like of this all this self sabotage that's there and we've had to work through that thing that stuff becoming healthier people
 And as we individually become healthier people
 We build more trusting relationships where we spend time together. We talked about the leadership lunch that we do
 And we pour into each other and I think consistencies a key because I consistently
 Experience you to to be the way that you are it's consists not a oh there was that one time you were nice to me
 But now these other times I really am scared of you because I can't anticipate there is consistency because I just I just know Chris and Heather
 How about you
 That's such the best throw that's the best ever
 You over there you why are you over there here's the funny thing I have something in my mind
 I hope you trust me
 This is awesome. I have something in my mind which is why it's like processing that and I'm going
 Hey wife jumping so please feel free jumping jumping jumping on the trust side
 yeah
 I would say that the consistency like Joel said consistency is key
 I knew you coming into the business
 But it was
 Different I didn't know Joel very well and so it was just a different dynamic in mean learning and understanding and being able to
 anticipate
 You really do have my best interest at heart. Hey, you know this leadership team really does care
 And the more and more you learn to trust that team the more vulnerable you become
 Which is easier I mean if we look back in root system and stuff like that that's probably been a thing that has been a bigger struggle for you
 Is past
 Not being able to trust is that correct? Oh and a vulnerable very much so very much so and it was you know
 I it was that self protection and that I don't trust anyone
 Because you know they're all out everybody's out to get me type of mindset
 And once you get past that once you build that trust and build those relationships
 Then you can let down that that wall and you can become vulnerable and then you become
 Interesting enough teachable and moldable right yes, isn't that crazy? Who would have thought that so talk about vulnerability?
 What is that been like because man?
 I've asked you guys to be incredibly vulnerable and many situations obviously in your leadership vulnerable with me
 So what has that been like being vulnerable at at this business?
 There's been a lot of growth there of just of getting past my own self protection and being able to be more vulnerable
 Especially when it comes to failure when it's just getting very comfortable with failure and being like okay
 It's gonna be just fail. We just do we mess that up
 We're gonna go solve it. We know how this is gonna go. I hate it more than anyone
 Possibly more than you guys at times like I don't like it. I don't like when it occurs
 Because I'm like we're better than that we when we miss something and we're better than that
 So but we go fix it and so it's it's getting past your own stuff of your own self protection
 That helps you become more vulnerable. It's like it's a result for me
 But also I want to share like watching you guys over the years especially you Heather
 I've just there was a point in time where there was a huge shift and
 Because all of a sudden Chris is like pressing in on things and holding you accountable to things and you all the sudden were like
 Yep, yep, that's right. That's you're exactly right
 Where a long time prior
 It possibly would have ended up in a fight
 Because of all the stuff you've already shared that we've talked about already and there was this shift of just personal responsibility
 I'm not being attacked in and but I recognize in this shift in myself as well
 That that our member times we would have conversations in the past
 That looking back on them were like a chill for dinner and my kids love when I call myself
 I'm like Joel floods it they call me with daddy messes something though with like Joel for dinner and it's
 Stuff like but I look back on myself and I can see it's like dude you were just totally
 Just self sabotaging in that place, but now you can see it back the end I couldn't I think that's such a great thing
 I mean there's times I can look back on my life and I and I I'm so thankful that God drops that in there
 I've going yep I sucked there. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't treat that later well
 Yeah, I could have done a better job there and I didn't I didn't do that one with excellence or I you know
 I hurt people with that situation or whatever
 So yeah, and like you say that fight that battle of and what that fight is is just the
 O-crap I'm losing worth this cannot happen. I must battle. I must argue. I'm gonna fight. I got to push
 On the person that I feel like I'm losing worth to and we still to this day will see that sure
 But it's just so but it's cool. I will say that it's there have been key tough conversations that you and I have had
 That you didn't shy away from having it. I mean there were times when in the beginning side you were like hey man
 I've actually seen this like building and I've been watching it for a little while
 But we we need to talk about this and address this because you're seeing stuff build and but I'll tell you that it's the tough
 Conversations that we had that were though they were they weren't just leadership changing
 They were life changing because it was like
 Let's look at all this and it was hard and it was painful and it was tough to see
 But the growth out of it was massive and I tribute so much of my growth to those tough conversations
 So if you're a leader
 Struggling to have tough conversations
 Commit to learning that skill set because it could change the lives of the people around you and so let me
 I say this because I think it's very important for people to hear this what was my intention?
 It was to help me you recognize Joe Struggling with control
 You know that there was a time when Heather and I in a in a and a point main group
 Stratplan we were doing on our self that you left and
 I picked up the ball and started running with it and
 I was became I was controlling I was out of control. I was just not good
 And then afterwards it led to a you went and got some perspective from others to see how things went
 Because you heard something and fast forward it ended up in a in a conversation between you and I that
 That I didn't see all that I was struggling with and that but it was conversations like that because of having how
 Poorly I was treating Heather and our communication
 That was like this isn't normal Joel if I'm that way some sense going down and you'll recognize it
 Impress and lead me effectively in the conversation
 Because think about if we had not had those conversations and you never been addressed and things would have left
 Just moving in the course they were
 Where would we be today? I'm gosh unresolved conflict between the two of you
 the inability for you guys to be vulnerable with each other and
 We're so tight as not only as as a team but also as friends. Yeah, you absolutely correct that would have been
 terrible and
 The amazing thing is and and that's the thing I want people to hear is that there's not a
 I want to take you down a notch. I want to you know like you pointed out on the last show Heather
 That there's those people in your past and I've got him in my past. Oh my gosh
 I have today for doing what I do for a living
 I don't know if we've ever talked about I don't know if you ever get that but doing what I do for a living
 There are people that want to try and take me down a notch
 There's there this it's just the hey let me see if I can't be controlling with Chris or zing something out of
 And that's gonna hurt him and praise God
 You know we do what we do and we use the tools that we use because that kind of sucks
 You know that that kind of hurts in that those those situations and again
 For a lot of people don't understand. I'm still a very high S and high I
 People think because of my confidence that I must be a high D which I'm not on one of my
 25 natural 40 adapted I believe but
 That hurts those situations hurt and so if you have somebody
 As a leader who is
 Feeling out of control then their response can be one of let me hurt you to get you back in line
 Get you back in control so I feel good about myself and man you've just you've just really destroyed
 Relationship you've really affected relationship in a bad way
 How about you Heather what is like being vulnerable?
 What has that been like for you and how have you gotten there being here?
 Yeah, I think going back to what Joel had said that there was this switch that happened
 In my leadership and in our conversations and communication
 I think coming back from Israel when I finally
 Took a look at where I was getting my worth from
 And made that switch to not looking to you to get approval or to fill that need until looking to God instead
 It gave me that ability to step back and just have conversations with you about
 Stuff and it wasn't a personal thing
 So I guess we probably should say this
 The three of us went to Israel a couple years ago
 We also had a guy that was working here dead that went out there as well big big group on a big Bible study tour
 And before that you and I had wanted to be in a relationship for a very very very long time
 But we both had struggles coming out of past relationships and things but one of the big things is I was the most important thing in your life at the time
 safe to say
 I
 Wanted that pause there
 No, yes, very accurate to say which is it for me is the worst possible thing God must be
 God must be the most important thing and going there God worked on you and wrecked you
 He wrecked us all in in different ways, but there was a a specific situation where God just wrecked your world and showed you
 That he was not your your the most important thing and what the profound effect that that had on your life and
 I think two days later. I knew yep, we will be
 We will be getting may read
 We will eventually be in a relationship and getting married
 So just powerful powerful thing
 When you're putting your worth and human beings
 You know we talked about at the front of the show the end of last show
 If your identity and your worth is coming from your role your ability to answer questions your ability to solve problems
 Your ability to be the headhonshow than what you're missing out on is all of the gifts and talents that God has put in you to do more
 Like lead and so so much of that vulnerability that you are lack of vulnerability that you experienced in the past
 Helge you back from your leadership and I think that's one of the things I have loved watching
 Is you have gotten to this place where you know like Joseph in the past there would be this battle this fight
 Don't lose worth getting there fight fight fight
 instead of the what's going on and now it is this
 There's such a shift for years now that has happened in your leadership where you go after it
 high sea high S
 Who goes after yep that's something I got to do yep that's something I get a solve yep
 There's a situation I must address yep there's a thing that's not working or I got to go after that what's up in like for you
 yeah I think it's been
 For me it's been it's been fun it's been fun to and and not to say that I don't still struggle with the
 Worth because I noticed whenever I get defensive in our conversations or whenever
 You know that tendency pops up I know that I'm losing worth in that moment
 And so but it but it did it helped me back from so much growth so much
 just deeper
 Deeper conversations as a leadership team because I was operating in that that protection and that
 You know looking for that approval
 now it's been fun it's been
 Looking for hey how do I grow in this moment instead of going oh shoot I'm failing again
 It just changes the way that you look at I know leading for me personally
 There's I mean you guys are the two that I come to when I'm struggling you two are the ones that I come to
 When I've got to go to you know battle the lies against you know with the truth so I'm like kind of stuff like we teach
 And next level of life and I can think of times where I've just come to you guys and said hey
 I'm struggling
 This is the lie that I'm telling myself or even the you know here's where I am here's what's happened here's
 my situation and just the ability to be vulnerable with you guys and say
 I'm sucking and Joel there's been so many times where you've just I mean you just very quickly
 What's the thing you're saying it well this here well you know this you know this to be true
 I mean within 30 seconds I mean I can think of multiple times where it's been in a
 30 seconds maybe a minute of just pop pop pop pop pop yep you're right
 Fantastic that's exactly what I needed to hear and that ability to come to you guys and of course obviously
 You're my wife so I better be able to be vulnerable on everything with you but just being able to
 Be the type of team where we can talk about anything that there is in anything that we can't talk about
 There isn't anything that we can't and again we've had leaders come into the team
 We've had leaders not make it on the team we've had folks that have not been you know long-lasting and they've not and it's
 Interesting they you always see the same thing you see that the the inability to be vulnerable the inability to
 You know stop self protecting all that kind of on stuff and it just affects that that that cohesiveness
 so for me
 how did we get here
 time
 Much of what and it's not just
 There's so many leaders that we help out that have been together as a leadership
 team as I do my air quotes four years and have no trust have no vulnerability have
 Terrible communication have no accountability in the process
 So let's different about the time that we spend together compared to what we see in so many other businesses
 Well, I think the fact that we actually spend time together is a huge deal
 Because it's not just hey, I see the leaders at the
 obligatory standard leadership meeting that I have on Monday
 for volunteering to show up at the mandatory meeting. It's the on I'm saying
 That's actually it's not like that. It's a no we're forming a team here and that's a radical thought
 That's a new thought for some people because it's in my experiences been is within an organization as you have
 leaders who lead their team
 Hey, you are on ops you run IT you run you know staff services you wrote whatever and
 Businesses of that way as well, but the leaders don't look at themselves as this is my team
 I also have my team that I lead and so when you look at I'm forming a team here a leadership team
 Well, what are the things you have to do to build a successful team and and we do those things rather than okay here
 Let's go to our leadership meeting. Let me protect my team the whole time and then go back to just protecting and working on my team when I get back
 And know hey, this is something Chris wants us to focus on
 So just let's us to do better without you know if that's not what we do
 There's intentional time hours spent but we also have personal relationships so I think about like even if we weren't who we are
 I think we would still invest in we should still get together. We should still do things
 I think we're a little unique in terms of the depth of our relationships, but nothing we do is can't be done by other people
 It's just are we gonna commit to okay we're trying to build a leadership team here
 Trust and unity are a must high levels of quality communication peer to peer accountability vulnerability
 Our keys so we have to go after that stuff. Yeah, we do life together. I mean it's so much more than leadership
 and I think
 You have to be intentional you can't just
 You know slot an hour meeting once a week and think that your leadership team can trust you
 You have to be intentional and we spend time together and we spend time with Mary Beth
 We spend time with the kids we spend time outside of here
 Knowing and learning and growing together
 and I think it just builds on that trust and then we become you know warriors together here at the office
 Yeah, it's like the only reason I have you guys over for my kids birthday parties is just because I want a better leadership team
 Oh, yeah, that's it totally absolutely
 It grows us it does it's all part of my little scheme
 I work a little plan
 Be best team. I was just gonna grow my leadership right here
 Yeah, you know it's so fun because
 You know a couple years ago you walked in the door and you said hey I'm going to Israel
 I'm cutting this down, but you you said hey I'm going to Israel Mary Beth
 Isn't ready to leave the kids on a trip like this for two weeks? I need a roommate you want to be my roommate and I went
 Yes, and
 Later on we talked to Deb we talked to Heather and they're like yep want to go
 To go and spend a we were able to take our top leadership out of the business for two weeks and the business ran
 Incredibly there was literally I think we talked about it between the three of us we had four emails
 That we handled over two weeks. That's how well the team ran
 I loved it when we got back people I like tell me about all the fires you had to put out as like zero
 There were no we had lots of emails no fires
 But the time that we spent because we've spent so much time together because we we spent time
 Doing life together because we spent time growing and God together
 You know bringing our
 Our belief systems together bringing our
 Integrity the characteristics of our you know our attributes together
 We could go on something like that and we just
 Grow immensely as
 Individuals and as a leadership team. I think you're so powerful for our company
 But again that time piece like you said if we if you're not spending time like you know
 Heather slotting in one hour a week
 For you know the most efficient
 Meeting hitting the topics and getting that does not grow what that does is it tends to create
 Probably more instability more lack of trust because what happens well here's a problem all how do you how do you how do you
 Handle that what you do with that why that happened and instead of it being a hey
 Let's work on this together. You know we spend so much time
 Of me pushing back on you guys what would you do? How would you do this? How should you do this? What should you say here?
 What of this what is this person gonna think when you say that of me thinking ahead and walking you guys
 Doing advice first and you guys with each other as well that is just made us so tight as as a team and the ability for us to be vulnerable
 To seek each other out when hey, I'm struggling with something or hey here's a problem or hey
 I need it to have a tough conversation with you or hey let me speak to something that you're experiencing right now
 It's just it's just crazy powerful
 So yeah, we are gonna we've got so much to hit and we're gonna come back and talk about
 What you guys have done as far as being able to lead your team instead of being stuck and in like the crazy leadership
 Psycho when we come back right out to this
 Hey folks here's the deal
 Every business as a culture but are you leading yours intentionally or
 Settling for whatever comes in the door if you're finally ready to create the company culture you've always wanted
 They're gonna want to sign up for my free digital video series creating a culture of champions
 I will personally guide you for 10 days to get clarity on the culture you desire and
 Lead your team to embrace it you can sign up at
 Chrissacrittle.com/culture lesson again if you're ready to make a change
 Sign up for my free digital video series creating a culture of champions at
 Chrissacrittle.com/culture lesson
 Let's talk about one of the biggest things that we discuss here for leaders is if you do not kill the leadership crazy
 Psycho it ain't happening you're not leading people the goal is not well let me hit that
 The goal is not for you to have your identity and how many tasks you do in a day
 We have coached a ton of leaders and especially some older leaders that come from the older generation
 Where their identity was
 Being a leader or many business owners where their identity was being a business owner and the number of things that they did in a day
 Was the thing that made them feel good about themselves
 The problem with this concept is as a leader you can have you can pay people to do tons of tasks
 We have people on the team that are doers that do tons of tasks
 I do great job knocking things out. They love that. They're happy about that
 But we can't make them great
 If we're all bogged down in tasks and that's one of the things that we teach a lot in killing the leadership crazy Psycho the leadership crazy Psycho being
 That you are overwhelmed that like you don't even know
 You know what all you did in that day and that's what we call the leadership crazy Psycho so
 Let's kind of speak to this what is it been like leading here
 Doing everything we can to make sure that we don't get stuck in the leadership crazy Psycho and you don't it's not that you get rid of it
 We we kind of go in and out of it and in out if you're you know
 As you continue to grow the the goal is to not be in it for any decent amount of time. So let's speak to that
 Yeah, I'll go
 And one is that you know we're always looking out for it. That's a key part of how we're leading here. So
 You know we all what's this small business that Heather and especially you and I we have a lot on our plates
 We're like a lot of we're part time this this this this this this this and there's a lot of things going on
 So and I'll speak to my role that you know
 I'm a VP leadership development. I've got my team. I'm also coaching a lot of clients
 I'm responsible for all sales
 That in split it's always looking through a lens of what can go what can leave your plate what can be delegated
 Because how do we spend more time leading other people to be successful and live in that the gift or talent or
 Maximize that while you're still needing to be successful selling stuff. Oh by the way
 I'm in next civil life Thursday and Friday
 And so you have to be very on top of your time and very on very organized and very focused on key results
 In order to be as productive and successful as you can be as you're constantly challenging
 What am I doing why am I doing this? Who can I give this to? Who would be better?
 And but it's a constant repetitive consistent thing so there's a lot of clients I coach and say
 That you don't just check the box on killing the leadership crazy cycle you're forever doing it
 You get the foundation inside of you it becomes DNA in your decision making and you never stop
 It'd be different if if all we did was create the same widgets
 So the same widgets to the same people all the time then you could check the box that doesn't happen business is constantly grown
 What's it been like for you to
 You know
 You stay out of it
 Dip your toe in the leadership crazy cycle from time to time by being everyone because here's one thing that has happened to multiple times
 A lot of times you run so much of the operational side of the business you're over that what your team does
 But since you're over that
 If anything happens stuff comes back to your plate
 You know if if a team member leaves or if we adjust things or
 You know we've had some we've had some big issues where like a software
 You know, what of our big processes is just suck it away into we got to change it
 We got to do something about it you know change vendors or whatever and that ends up dumping stuff back to your plate
 I mean it's happened
 Gosh probably 10 times 12 times since you've been here right?
 Mm-hmm. Yeah, I've seen me do this process really well
 I've seen me do this process really bad
 And I think the big key for me is making sure
 When I am looking at those things in my priorities are always changing and like you said I you know it
 Ebs and flows when
 You know my hands are in in a lot of little things that are happening around here and I have to make sure that if I'm
 Delegating it then I'm delegating it properly and that's where I can easily mess up is
 Quick get this off my plate because I have all these things on my plate and not work that process so
 It's just it's it's a constant moving target that I have to keep my priorities straight and like Joel said be looking
 Into the future on what's coming what can I get off my plate what can I delegate delegate
 To keep moving because I it's just a matter of time before
 You know something's gonna flow back in
 Yeah, and I think it's interesting because personality style
 So if we look at your personality style, you know Joel you have more high eye
 But you have a ton of maturity you have a ton of confidence
 There is a level of if something's gonna happen. It's like well we got a fix this. Let's figure this thing out. Let's fix this thing
 Early days you probably would have been more
 Let me take on as many things as I can
 Worth is in that all of that kind of fun stuff
 Definitely not where you are now
 Heather for you when stuff loads back up there the you can get into that place of
 You don't you're not the person who looks to add more to your plate
 You are looking for more consistency
 You like being able to delegate stuff and get it off your plate, but when things do pile back on
 Because something happens how does that impact you in
 Your sanity your you know you're leading people your stress levels all that yeah
 Again, I don't like change. I like that consistency in that structure and so it's not always easy for me when
 Things are changing and
 The big thing that we keep going back to as a leadership team that that you guys have walked me through numerous times is
 Let's take a look at the priorities what are the priorities that need to stay on your plate and what can you get rid of?
 And you just I just have to look through those
 Otherwise it can be overwhelming and then I have to think you know
 I think oh I need to do it all myself because it's got to be done right and nobody else knows how to how to handle this software and
 You know it's so easy to get caught up and oh, I just need to keep it on nobody else can take it instead of going well
 Is that truth? You know could you train somebody to do that?
 Source does someone else
 Your options and so so I think one of the things that that brings up a another question
 I love this conversation because it just keeps bringing up more fantastic stuff
 Let's talk about excellence. I want to get to where successful leaders spend their time
 But let's talk about excellence. What does that look like here?
 What does that look like?
 Leading people to excellence what happens when they're not being excellence when they're not being excellence
 Well not being excellence. That's what's going on. That's what's going on. That's what's going on. That's what I mean.
 They're all pounced on that.
 Man yeah, both of them. So
 You know first of all is like you ask you like how do we do that? Where does that start? You know it's first is that it does come from you
 It's your clear and your mind what excellence looks like and that's a hopefully that's a key takeaway
 for you know all of you all who are listening is you have to define what's up
 You have to define your culture your excellence so that you have standards and you can set right expectations in your team
 Otherwise how can you ever expect people to achieve that and then they don't we get frustrated and then we just fire people right?
 Who's like oh I'm so done with this person and you know gossiping to your spouse about how you're frustrated with this team and
 Brolday long but so you have to define it and then you have to lead people to it and been
 Paint the path show people how to do it hold people accountable to it because you've now
 Defined it you've set that up so for us it's it's looking for are we excellent in our communication
 Do we have excellent accountability? Where are KRAs are the right expectations in place?
 Are we taking massive personal responsibility as leaders?
 We're driving toward clarity on the team otherwise it's really hard to be excellent right?
 You can't lead without all that clarity but we focus so much heavily on that about where we go in this company
 What's the vision what's the strategy is it in a sauna?
 You know are I'm down to small things?
 I mean I love the I mean you guys tell the story better than I do but like the whole story about
 the whole olive oil story of discovering like wait a second something's not right here
 You guys tell the story because but it's excellence
 All the time
 Constant it's such a core part of our culture it's that is I'm so glad you brought that up because it is one of those things that you would think is so small and yet
 It impacts things so one of the things that we do here for events where we always do food
 We always have food we have wine we do stuff
 We love making a phenomenal experience for the client that's something I felt like I'd said to do
 When I started this business is bring that in that's part of my that's a passion of mine. I love food. I love wine and so we always do stuff
 We do our bison rib eyes were well known for that
 We do all kinds of stuff
 But there's this one dish so when we do strap plans
 We have and we do one to two a month of those depending upon what's going on we try not to do two a month
 But sometimes that happens
 But there's a thing that we do with these roasted Brussels sprouts and man
 I tell you what I've hated Brussels sprouts my whole life until I had them one time and I'm like I can recreate that
 I can do something what that I can make that and I think I can make it better and man we make some great
 Brussels sprouts. They are fantastic and so for somebody who doesn't like them
 I'm always eating those right and so there's a specific way that we do it and we have a specific olive oil that we use with it and
 All this stuff that we do to prepare it and then we roast them so
 We had a team member who was in the role and we would do strap plan again
 Like I say we're only having these Brussels sprouts once the twice a month
 So it's not like it's something that we do every day. You know we do next level of lives
 Almost every single Thursday and Friday
 We have meals that we're you know we we hit a lot of the same meals we could find something much faster
 So I would have these
 Opening dinners and so I'm spending a lot of time with the team and I'm finishing cooking a lot of stuff
 But I have a team member preparing this stuff and
 Well, I would eat those Brussels sprouts. I'm like something is just wrong these are super bitter
 There's something wrong and everybody else is like, I don't know they're fine
 They don't know they've never had them before and I'm like something's wrong and so I would go back to
 Heather and I would say something's wrong with those Brussels sprouts. I don't know what it is
 But something's very bitter about this she's like well, I'll be fine. Down she went talk to the team
 And the team members like well, I'm doing exactly the way you guys say
 And so this happened like three events and I don't remember
 What it was but at one point?
 We looked over and we have on the counter. We have these multiple different olive oils and
 We were out of one
 I think is that correct? What was it where we out of one or something? I stayed one night for the strap plan
 Oh, that's what it was you wanted to watch and see what happened
 So you take it from there
 Yeah, so we have two different kinds of olive oils that are sitting right next to the stove and so
 I'm here during strap plan and I'm watching the process because we can't figure it out
 And I'm like dang I've trained on this we've got a checklist for this. It's a meal brainer, right?
 Like where am I failing?
 I'm only making this more bitter and so
 I remember standing there and I watched the team member reach for the lemon a lemon a olive oil
 infused olive oil instead of plain olive oil and so it was the a hat
 There it is and when you asked she said oh I thought that was the fancy olive oil
 She's like I saw you guys use this on we used it on salads and she goes so I figured you were putting the fancy olive oil on your salads
 And I figured that was the fancy one
 It were like look at all no, no, that's got a whole bunch of lemon juice in it so
 Thus the excellence was you know we were able to discover what it was but I'm God you brought that up because
 So many times people just go well whatever
 Nobody's complaining about it nobody's saying anything about it so whatever and that's just not good enough for us again
 But take it back to my leadership in that process of me training her
 You know where did I fail in that process of use the fancy olive oil and
 Just to see me what does that mean you know what does that mean right you know?
 And I thought it's not like you went over and you would have grabbed obviously you would have
 Done this with the right olive oil right but but not saying hey by the way
 Never use this this has got lemon in it you know or or saying hey here's the different oils and here's what we use them for
 And explaining that process the great piece is is that you stayed to find out
 What's happening with my team member something's not right the team member feels probably like you know
 She's a total dork because
 Chris keeps saying something's wrong and
 Nothing can be wrong it's she's following the process so by staying you discover the issue in and inspect and
 See what's going on and that made her feel much better
 Because she doesn't feel like a failure because Chris knows something is wrong but Chris can't put his finger on it
 You know or whatever whoever the person is whoever's leading the process
 So what's that been like for you outside of that story difference between excellence and
 Oh, well Chris you're just wrong or you know, it's fine. It's good enough. It's good enough. Yes
 Because that's what we were hearing from the clients
 That's fine. That's good enough and I'm like
 Yeah, it's not it's not the way it can be so what has happened like for you on the excellent side of it
 Yeah, I think it's been a different you know I came from
 A culture of excellence so I knew coming into this business what excellence
 Look like you must have had a great leader back then
 I don't remember his name. Yeah, anyways
 But it's one thing to operate in a state of excellence, but how do you lead?
 Your team right to excellence and that's been the growth process for me again. That's going from a team member and excellence to a leader
 Leading excellence. Right and that's where I've had to learn that hey they don't always know what you know
 They don't don't just assume
 That they know this is the fancy olive oil or this is the olive oil that you're supposed to use
 you know
 And so it's been a learning process for me to how do I teach
 Excellence and then being able to go back to that person and how do you hold accountability
 to
 What we expect and what excellence looks like yeah, and how do you get that team member to want?
 excellence
 You show yeah, that's a good thing because you've seen both you've had both on your team
 You can't interview out everything it's impossible to know
 The character of a person it's impossible to know the choices of a person but you've had people that have been on your team
 I'm both of you have actually that
 The standard of excellence around here was not something that was desired by the team member
 What is that like how frustrating is it what did you guys do about it?
 What's that been like yeah, it's tough because I mean you know your your standards
 Because it becomes personal it means like these our core values become personal you believe in them
 You know, they're not just let me put my
 Leadership hat on when I come to work and now I've got to okay let me now follow these core values
 They if you're really committed and you love what you do and where you're at you will take them on personally
 So you see it's tough to see people that don't adopt it like you do and you try to lead them to be successful
 and all the things that we teach in terms of like embody these because they drive your decision making
 Well man if you're a person who really doesn't want to do that how hard is it going to be to work
 anywhere that really leads culture and leads
 This is how we do it here and so it's it's it is challenging but
 You know the team abs and flows and it's like I mean I love the team that we have
 been there's nothing better as a leader than seeing your team members take massive responsibility for their role
 As a leader there's nothing more but the thing is to your point we can't always hire out everything
 So we have to train that we have to lead that
 What's up in like for you because like I say I know you've had
 In the past some that didn't rise up to the level of experience and you've seen some victim
 Tality and there what's up in like yeah, I think like Joel said it's hard because
 We love what we do and we believe in what we do and we want
 That excellence we want to provide our clients with that excellence and so it's hard to see a team member
 Who's falling short of
 Desiring that or even wanting that it's one thing if you want it and you're just missing some pieces
 You know that's teachable and we can we can work with that but when you don't desire it
 It makes it pretty tough to
 You know to lead that person to excellence
 And I think the other thing too the big thing for me is if I am expecting excellence then I need to be walking in excellence too
 And so you know because your team is watching you and so what does that look like and
 Are you holding yourself to those standards?
 You know I have to ask that question and am I holding myself to the standards that I expect for my team because if I'm not then
 You know how can I expect or lead or teach?
 Them to be
 Excellent in those areas one-on-one
 Yeah, and it's not that we are excellent on 100%
 Of the stuff
 There are times when this is good enough
 It's shit the areas that we are probably the most excellent in is a our integrity
 That is a big thing for us. I mean just even little things you called something out
 The other day where it was like hey we just need to make sure that that doesn't look like a lack of integrity
 You know which there wasn't any lack of integrity just could come across that way
 So I think we're excellent there. I think we really try to have great character
 You know as individuals here, but I think if it's client facing that's one of the things that we're really at a huge total
 That is just big for us. You know people have always mocked me
 For how when you come into one of our events things are straight
 Tables are aligned you know bottles of water you can stand at the end of the you know the end of the room and look down the the
 Rose and see stuff is aligned like what do we do stuff at hotels?
 They don't like us when we get to the table set because we're like these have to align
 And they're like are you serious? They brought their own tape message
 We brought our tape measure. We bring string to go there, you know rose throws and people like
 You're spending an hour getting these things. Yes. Why?
 Because when people walk in the door they're gonna see excellence and they're gonna think oh wow
 These are people I want to you know I want to learn from them. Do we screw stuff up? Oh my gosh
 We screw stuff up. We're the people that say listen you know this business is based on mistakes
 And how to overcome mistakes
 Yes, we screw up and we better screw up because if we don't screw up we're not trying
 So that's a very important piece one last gosh. We
 We're running out of time one last thing on this and I think we're we're gonna need to in the future come back and hit some more leadership
 Questions. Yes, totally
 So we teach after killing the leadership crazy cycle we talk about where successful leaders spend their time
 Where do you guys spend your time where to successful leaders where do I?
 Where do we what does that look like?
 You know, it's when it comes when it comes to this topic
 You know the overwhelming majority of my time is spent making my guys successful. It's making my team successful
 We aren't talking about stuff just to talk about it. We're not really wasting time. We are about okay
 What is my team doing how can I help them? How can I give them better direction? How can I help solve problems?
 I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, Linnae and I had a conversation just recently about
 You know that she's a high SC and she was struggling with with just like overwhelmed and
 Fear of failure and she wasn't sure even what I was seeing did I think she was doing a good job and because she thought
 As a high SC she was really kind of tearing into herself
 And it can be so much harder on herself and I'm like
 So we talked about a lot of it and one of the things with it was just me and also encouraging her
 You know like you want me to be honest with you. I think you're doing a phenomenal job
 I said there are these small things that were here that you could improve on
 But look at your KRA I mean you're doing phenomenal in your role
 Sometimes that's that's where I need to spend time that's but if I'm task saturated and stuck in the leadership crazy cycle
 I'm never gonna take the time to do that
 I'm not gonna take the time to dig in and find out what's going on with my team member
 And that can be a in her the whole tone shifted because that's what she needed
 But if I'm stuck in myself if my worth is coming from my tasks and like okay
 Hey, I got a cancel this meeting and then next week. Hey, I've got a cancel that meeting and then I've got a cancel that meeting
 I never get around the knowing my team member
 I can never spend enough time to build trust with my team and then actually making them a higher priority
 Exactly struggling and looking to leadership or just knowing that they're struggling and just staying in a place of fearing failure
 Because we're not intentionally making sure do you have the bandwidth to lead people to be successful in their role and get out of your own way
 Yeah, how about you? Where do you where do you successful leaders spend their time?
 Yeah, I think this is for me an area that I'm actually growing in right now. I think as I'm getting
 more of the delegation process getting things off my plate
 I've been able to take a harder look at strategy and like Joel said just spending more time
 Bigger picture leading the team on
 What's needed and how can they better
 operate in their role
 Yeah, I think that's where I've seen it the most is just being able to
 It's more strategic now and less
 task absolutely for me. I mean we for me I spend most of my time in
 Either events
 Doing stuff like this creating you know products to show the stuff that we put out
 Leading the team leading you guys you guys leading the team
 Working on strategy for the business. What does it look like for growth all that kind of fun stuff
 the level of admin? I still have admin there's still some things I've got to do
 It's just it's the things that only I can do in the business and it's just not that it's
 It's overwhelming if I don't have time to do it
 Which I have to constantly make sure that I have time to accomplish those pieces so I don't get stuck in that as well
 And then we push very hard make people successful make people successful
 Take a look at your team see where they're falling apart see where they're not doing so well see where they're not
 Meaning expectations see where they're not spending the right time see where they're priorities on one of the things we do is we have the team members
 Email you guys at the beginning of the week what their priorities are and
 Asking the questions of you know
 Can you help me with it there's anything that they need help on but so that you guys can make sure that their priorities are what they need to be
 So that you guys can go and if you need to reset move stuff around
 They know what to be working on because
 Man it sucks especially in a time like COVID where so many businesses have taken a hit and you're still spending money on people
 And if their priorities are not correct and you watch money just going out the door
 Because the things are working on aren't the things that are bringing in money during this time
 They were doing great before but now not so much
 Being able to get in there and just set those priorities is just a a powerful piece to make sure that you're
 Utilizing your team your resources all the best that you possibly can't man we got to stop we got to end
 Last stuff anything you guys want to throw out the folks listening
 You know, I think my just of my piece of advice is that
 It's if you're hearing this and you're like man I've really got to make raising up leaders a priority
 Solve the stuff that's holding you back
 Kill the leadership crazy cycle. I mean I will I will very
 Confidently make a plug for our programs. I mean I'm serious guys
 If you're really looking to be like okay enough is enough
 I need to solve stuff that's holding me back as a leader so that I can grow this business better
 Duplicate myself and other leaders just go to our website and inquire
 We have we have coaching programs for this reason to help you experience a better business a better life
 Become a better leader
 But get to help that you need them and go into power into 2021 and like you know
 I'm gonna make some change but I'll tell you no one who is successful and truly successful in business and leadership does it alone
 People have coaches and mentors and I'll just I'll just very plug like this is what we do
 Reach out and get help absolutely Heather
 I have a question for you Chris
 I was gonna more turning it around
 We're ending the show now. I'm scared now I'm paying attention now. I would love to know and I'm sure that our listeners would love to know too
 You know we've talked so much about
 leading leaders what do you see or what have you seen in?
 Our leadership or in the leadership process
 Oh gosh, that's like air in question. I think the thing that I love
 the most is so
 If I don't spend the time
 Then I get what I would I give right if I don't spend the time leading you guys then you only grow to the ability of
 It's not that you can't grow into great roles, but were you gonna get the information?
 Were you gonna get the growth were you gonna get the accountability were you getting the
 Gonna get the the pieces that grow you as leaders so for me the thing that I love is because we've spent so much time together
 I
 Holy trust you guys. I don't struggle with things that you guys are
 This is the team that I fight for right this I I don't struggle worrying
 I'm not thinking about things aren't getting done or they they you know
 I need to worry about you guys or I need to worry about you know
 Is something falling off the rails
 Yeah, I trust you guys and I think that's the thing that I love is that
 It allows me to focus on bigger things the more that the more that you guys grow the more that I grow the more that your team's
 Girl then the more than I can accomplish things so I don't know that's question you're asking but that's how I see it
 So
 Well, then well, thank you
 You passed you all right, I passed it that's good all right well folks. Hopefully this has been helpful to you
 Again, this is this is what we do we live what we teach
 I was thinking about that earlier
 Gosh, I need to end in the show here we got more information
 I was thinking about that earlier where you know people have asked us over and over again or made comments of man
 You guys you know when we talk about a failure they go oh my gosh good at least you guys fail on it's like
 What are you kidding?
 We fail all the time we just try not to fail at the same thing. Yeah, I'm pretty dumb
 Somebody jokes there somebody shirt jokes right there
 You know we we fail at all kinds of stuff that's what we do we just fix it we learn how to fix it and we
 We do stuff with it. We learn how to grow and grow the team and use it as phenomenal example
 So all right folks, well we hope this was helpful for you
 We want you to you know people that need to hear this help people help people share this
 Go like us on on iTunes tell people where we are so we can help other folks as well
 And as always take this information change your leadership change your business change your life and
 Join us on the next episode
 you
 [MUSIC PLAYING]