 Today on the show, we're going to talk about what to do when you don't like the person in the mirror.
 The one who's looking back at you.
 Self-loathing is not a new phenomenon. It's part of the human condition.
 Plus, we live in a world that binges on comparison.
 The result is destructive.
 The good news is we can dig into our root system, deal with the lines we're telling ourselves
 and self-managed to a healthier version of ourselves.
 All of this and more on today's Chris LaCordo Show.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCordo Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 Joining me today back in the studio is Joe Fordner.
 Welcome back.
 Hey, glad to be back on.
 It's good to have you back in.
 Thank you. Thank you.
 I always say that as if I don't see you, you know?
 Like most days of the week.
 Like, "Hey, hey, hey, let's go. Let's go."
 Let's go to see you again.
 It's taller.
 Yeah, definitely tanner.
 You had a good vacation.
 Yeah, it's great.
 It's a family.
 It's fantastic.
 That was good.
 So we got you back on the show because today,
 we're talking about what you do when you don't like the person in the mirror.
 Why did you bring me on for this picture?
 Well, Joe said, I know that that's something that you struggle with specifically.
 The reason it is is because we both are lead people to your next level of life.
 We both facilitate your focus on this.
 We've both experienced times in our lives when we have not liked the person in the mirror.
 And it's not like it's something that ever really goes away.
 It's just something that if you learn the tools, you can deal with it.
 But we see this a lot.
 We see this just about every week.
 We see people that are struggling with negative self-image, negative self-worth issues, all that kind of stuff.
 And one of the things I don't think we've ever hit on the show is that angle of I just don't like
 myself.
 I don't like the person I see in the mirror or all those pieces.
 That is what we're talking about today that I just don't like myself very much anymore.
 So we're going to hit that when we come back right after this.
 Next level of life is our two-day personal discovery experience.
 It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover your
 root system, to get unstuck in life and discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace.
 Imagine this.
 What if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose?
 What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict?
 Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years if you had clarity, purpose, and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today.
 Now I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself,
 is there more?
 There is.
 And there is a better way.
 And it starts with the next level of life.
 You can go to crissacrita.com/discover to take the next step.
 Now if you're struggling with this contentment, regret or not feeling good enough,
 which most of you are, if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking,
 don't keep going through the same motions every single day.
 Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace.
 Go to crissacrita.com/discover and take the next step.
 All right, we are back and we're talking about how much you don't like to see yourself in the mirror.
 Which is totally untrue nowadays.
 I'm pretty hot.
 I'm like myself.
 There are definitely times in my life and I know you have as well.
 Well, she said, let's jump in there.
 Sure, we'll just dive right in.
 This is just one of those times.
 Tell me all the times you've not liked yourself.
 It's actually a really interesting thing because I think about it.
 Actually didn't think about this until we literally started talking about this.
 It was especially how much you've been as a young boy of growing up and getting to where I had
 weight struggles.
 And while that's really not the thing we're talking about today is just looking physically at the
 problem, I don't like my nose.
 I don't like my ears.
 That's really not what we're talking about here.
 But you look at, I will look at myself back then.
 And I will help you.
 And so image that negative self image is a part of not liking myself.
 Yes.
 We're going deeper here more like self worth.
 I don't like the level of type issues here.
 But there are things physically just on this topic that I did not like about myself.
 And then, but you could really look back with what I now know and really see even underneath
 the physical stuff that I didn't like.
 It all stemmed from such self-worth struggles and people pleasing and other people then going
 on to make fun of your physical attributes that you don't like, which really just lowers
 and lowers and lowers your worth and feelings of worthiness.
 Yeah.
 I think for me, it's so funny because it wasn't until youth ministry in the mid 90s.
 Up until that point, that's when God really got to hold me and brought a lot out of me,
 shifted things, shifted a lot of my worth issues.
 I still struggle a lot of those for a long time.
 But up into that point, I was just the shyest kid.
 I was the kid who always had struggles of, you know, am I hurting people?
 I have all this stuff in my past about guilt from, well, if somebody's not happy, it's
 my fault.
 If somebody's life isn't going the way that they wanted to, it's my fault.
 It's just this guilt that lived with me for the longest time.
 It took God a long time to get that worked out of me.
 But I heard somebody say decades ago, you know you're struggling if you walk by mirrors
 and you don't want to look at you.
 We're not talking about the insecure person who has to keep looking in the mirror to look at
 themselves and make sure that everything is right.
 No, that is not what we're talking about, which is that again is still an insecurity.
 Note that I don't even want to look in the mirror.
 And I look through times over my life where even if I had absolutely nothing to do with it,
 if I was feeling like somebody else's pain was my fault.
 If I was feeling like, and I'm the guy who wants to remove everybody's pain from the world,
 I want to heal everybody.
 I want to take care of everybody.
 I don't want you to experience, I want you to experience pain that helps you to grow.
 God uses suffering to grow.
 No, ifsans are about to about it, but then I want to my goal is to, you know, our goal here
 at the business is to help people to see that utilize it, do something with it, fix it, move on.
 So not talking about that stuff, talking about when it was just, oh my gosh, it's my fault.
 And so if it is my fault and I may have quite a few people in my past that highly suggested
 that their problems were my fault.
 That's definitely definitely a possibility not naming anybody.
 I doubt they're listening to the show anyways, but I can remember those times of how I didn't
 want to look in the mirror.
 And it's just that feeling of I'm not good enough, I'm not worthy enough, possibly shame
 in those moments even if I knew that it wasn't my fault.
 But struggle of I just don't like that person.
 So I can go back to those times, you can go back to some of those times and know what that is
 like.
 And so that's kind of what we're hitting today.
 And we're just, we've got a few things we're just going to hit, like I don't know, a handful
 of thought processes that people have and want to kind of do a deep dive on this.
 So the first one we're going to talk about is that thought process, I feel like I'm
 a constant failure.
 I feel like I'm constantly messing up.
 What do you see?
 What do you experience when you see that?
 Well, the issue is not that you're actually failing.
 It's that you feel like you're constantly a failure.
 It's no matter what you do, you're making the wrong decision.
 People are telling you you're making the wrong decision.
 There can be just such a deep level of submissiveness, people pleasing, passivity, lack of perspective
 of knowing like, wait a second.
 What's happening here?
 What am I allowing into my head?
 What kind of influence am I allowing?
 Is this even truth?
 Is this even, that's not even really part of the process.
 The thing that will break your heart is that person who is just, it's like they're
 on a leash.
 It's like they're on an emotional leash because they have zero perspective on what is truth,
 and inequality perspective, they can be led by anyone in a direction because there is just
 no worth.
 There is, they've been so trained to believe that they are worth nothing or some level of that.
 And that's some of the most more extreme heart breaking situations.
 That's where you often see where there has been abuse or there is abuse going on
 in someone's life with that.
 That's on the extreme level, but even if that's not you guys, it's really looking at, where
 is that me?
 And in my allowing in, that type of influence that, hern is just straight up control that someone
 is trying to set my reality to get me to believe things about myself such as you are a failure.
 You are worthless.
 You're never going to make quality decisions because then that becomes a belief system.
 And then look at how compound interest works.
 That compounds and compounds and compounds and compounds and then you're a 30.
 It goes on itself.
 Absolutely.
 You're 30, 40, 50 years old and you've literally been believing that way for decades.
 Look at where you can be in your life.
 We have something we see all, and again.
 I feel like I don't need to contrast this, but I'm going to do it anyways.
 We're not talking about the person who's failing and then going, "Oh, crud, I screwed that up."
 Well, let's fix it and move on.
 That's not what we're talking about.
 We're talking about the person that you do feel like there's nothing you can do that is right.
 And again, I'm not talking about the victim mentality of just, "Oh, well, I'm going to
 control somebody or manipulate somebody by going, "Well, aren't I always a fake?"
 I'm talking about the person who, this is the lie they tell themselves all the time.
 This is what we see is that I can't do anything right.
 I'm afraid to take risks.
 I'm afraid to do things because I'm going to self-protect myself like crazy because I don't
 want to do something that causes me to be a failure yet again.
 What we see all the time is a lot of this comes from everything we're going to talk about
 as a system.
 We're going to see stuff in the root system.
 But we will tend to see as we're working through somebody's root system is we will see that
 usually it's apparent.
 It could be a grandparent.
 There's somebody in their life that is always responding with that wasn't good enough.
 And it doesn't even have to be the words.
 It can be, "Hey, Dad, hey, Mom, take a look at what I did."
 Yeah.
 Well, I did that when I was your age and it's communicating to the person that's just not
 enough.
 It's not good enough.
 Well, you know, I'm better than you are.
 I think it is hard for people to understand how much the insecurity of, I don't think I know
 this for a fact that we do this for a living.
 The insecurity of parents of being able to recognize that they're insecure to their own kids,
 that they're looking at their seven-year-old child who's trying to impress them.
 They want the seven-year-old child wants to get mom's approval, get dad's approval.
 Hey, look at me, look at what I'm doing.
 Do you love me?
 Do you think I'm amazing?
 Do you think something incredible about me?
 And that sparks this insecurity and that adult.
 And that adult looks down at that child and is like, "Yeah, so what?"
 Or, "Yeah, I've done that."
 Well, you should have seen it when I was your age.
 Well, it was different.
 And those responses come flying back at that child as you're just not good enough.
 You're not enough.
 So the crazy thing is is what we translate that into is, "I'm a failure."
 "I'm not good enough.
 I'm not worthy enough because I didn't do something that caused mom or dad to go, "Oh, my gosh.
 Wow."
 Because why would the kid ever expect that?
 Right.
 Because I say this, probably so many next-of-a-life events.
 Somewhere along the line, I say, "Your kid doesn't look at you and think, "Oh, oh, well,
 you have a root system."
 And that's why you're saying that.
 And that's why that was a trigger for you and you lost worth and went out of control and
 now your tear and me apart.
 Oh, well, that's you.
 I'll let you off the hook, mom or dad.
 And won't let it phase me.
 In-post.
 The child's going down, are you struggling with that?
 Exactly.
 Mom, what are you doing?
 I don't know.
 I don't think I was going to feel out of control today.
 That would be the ball.
 That would be great.
 That's great.
 But there's no perspective there.
 Because the child is, what is the child going for?
 Their goal is love.
 It's affirmation.
 It's look at this awesome thing.
 I'm proud of.
 And then within one second.
 Can you proud of me too?
 It's the brain is triggered.
 Loss of worth, out of control and here comes some very poor response.
 And I don't mean that right there maybe it got punched even here that you may.
 You may, that may be the person you see in the mirror sometimes.
 It's solvable.
 That's the thing we can get past this stuff.
 And, you know, we talk all the time on about whether it's on the life side, whether it's
 on the leadership side, the business owner side, it does not matter where we get our
 worth from matters immensely.
 And one of the things that parents don't understand is that they are trying to get worth
 from a child.
 So it's one thing to know to recognize you're trying to get worth from a team member, a parent,
 a mentor, a leader, any of that.
 But so many parents don't recognize how much time they spend trying to gain worth from
 a kid.
 And so if the child is doing something better than you were, well that's not good enough.
 You can't allow that child to be recognized for something that they don't even know that
 you did or didn't do or how well you didn't even matter to them.
 You just want your approval.
 And the struggle inside that feeling out of control, like you were just saying, causes that
 response to come back in a way of so what?
 And we're just hitting one aspect of what it looks like to parent and send messages to a child
 that you're accounts to find.
 What does that look like when that person grows up?
 Well, that's a fantastic question because we look at you're now the adult who feels
 unworthy.
 Well, just for communication sake, leave it right there.
 There wasn't a break in your mind where you all have a sudden just want, oh, no, there's
 no grand coronation ceremony.
 No one has a sector when you become an adult.
 No longer.
 No one unless you're British, no one turns you into a knight.
 You just grow up and you're now an older version with that same root system, that same
 force of habit thinking is still there.
 Your belief system has now been fashioned.
 So you grow up and now you're the struggling adult who's getting triggered all the time by spouse
 or people your jealous of at work because they're better at things than you are or you're struggling
 in your job and you're having tough conversations with your boss or whatever and you're
 in comparison traps.
 So whatever it may be and now you're parenting from that place and then now how are you parenting
 your child with your own struggles and this is how we perpetuate our root system.
 Absolutely.
 This is how we can't stop it because we keep creating generation after generation of people
 who are hurting and broken.
 Yeah, one of the things we do here because I hate to see it.
 I hate to see a team member who's holding themselves back or self protecting and this is
 a as bride calls it.
 This is a concentrated environment.
 So we hit things here.
 I don't know.
 We just right on the nose.
 We jump on it.
 We solve it.
 We push people because we want people to get this solved.
 We want them to be working on understanding and lie that they're telling themselves what is
 the truth solving the problems I'll never forget.
 You Katherine who has just levered a death.
 Heirder to run our events and all that kind of fun stuff.
 We're struggling with some some work issues that she came in and everybody has to go
 through the next level of life on the team but sometimes it takes a little while before
 they get in there.
 So she would struggle sometimes with a oh, credit screwed that up or oh, credit screwed that
 up and just wanting to make sure she didn't fail and I would always go ahead and go and
 so what so you did what are you doing about it?
 I love it because at one of the events I was walking toward her and she responded and
 she messed up something with the food or something like that.
 It couldn't have been anything big.
 I just said Katherine.
 She just looks like she goes, you're going to eat it and you're going to love it.
 You could just see her go, I'm not going to deal with.
 I'm not going to love this to be a failure.
 So it was great because she's responding to me.
 I think I said what are you going to do and she goes, you're going to eat it and you're going
 to love it and it was her way of getting over that failure in her mind.
 But oh, I screwed something up and it was a that's a lie.
 We fix things around here, we solve stuff, we move out on stuff.
 So for me, that's one of those things where I'm always looking for that self protection.
 Because the self protection means and folks, you've really got to get this.
 You've got to understand this.
 If you're afraid of failing, then you will put everything in place to not fail, which means
 that you're holding yourself back immensely.
 I call it putting another brick in the wall.
 You build that wall as fast as you possibly can so that nobody sees you fail.
 So that you don't get put in a situation.
 You don't, your neck never lands on the chopping block.
 What's the problem with that?
 It's like a self-fulfilling prophecy.
 You end up putting yourself in a situation where you screw up because you've been trying to
 protect yourself all day long from making a mistake and next thing, you know, something
 you know bust through and you have this mistake and then you really beat yourself up.
 How do people respond in situations like that?
 Well, when you think about that picture, you've protected yourself, you've protected yourself
 from failure, protect from failure.
 What's going to happen?
 Or the failure is just called, I'm going to stop.
 Just because you're being self-protective.
 No.
 Eventually it's just going to all topple and then it can be catastrophic.
 And you can absolutely, you can self-sabotage massively in that place.
 Okay.
 That's a leader.
 How do you see that team member?
 How do you see the team member?
 When you're a leader, and you do this for a living.
 If you were to see a team member in that self-protection mode so that they're hiding from
 failure, how do you as a leader?
 So let's maybe ask you, let me ask that a different way.
 If you didn't do what you did for a living and you didn't know what was really going on,
 but you're seeing this self-protection, how do you respond as a leader?
 I'm going to possibly pull back.
 I'm going to get frustrated.
 I may start hammering on stuff and become very controlling.
 After a while, I may fire you and let you go.
 Because it's like you're awful, you're terrible, you keep failing and you're failing more
 and more and more.
 Or you're not doing all the stuff you're not taking the rest of you.
 You're not talking to me, you're not coming for help.
 Or just a frustrating team member.
 And so you're going to find the door eventually.
 But that's also a failing profit.
 That's the leader.
 I'll have zero insight about what's really going on.
 Absolutely.
 Let's take another one.
 I feel like I never live up to other people's expectations when their opinions of me thoughts
 on that.
 That's just huge.
 I'm almost every single day.
 I mean, as being a person, I think, especially my own story coming into all this.
 We do nowadays, but I was just so deeply trying to be that way.
 And from parenting to college and academics and you're constantly trying to live up to
 people's expectations.
 But it's that for me as a high eye, it's their opinion.
 I mean, your opinion of me is the biggest thing that I would just kill myself over.
 Because I could never be good enough.
 Now I would encounter people who would let me know that and certain certain people, certain
 personality styles.
 But it's because I'm constantly seeking to do that.
 So you can see if you're that person that struggles with this, how little peace and contentment
 you live with in the world.
 In the world, because we don't live in the world isolated and we live with other people.
 So whether it's you're going to church or you're going to school or the people riding
 your own home or your workplace.
 If you're a force of habit, decision making and thinking is constantly trying to get people
 to think favorably of you or have some positive opinion of you or fight to the death to keep
 any negative opinion, which is was me as well.
 It's that you get to five o'clock in the day and what are you?
 You're out of control.
 You've spent so much emotional energy throughout the day because of what you created.
 But alone you think, look back on yourself and think, gosh, because of how I operate, how
 many false expectations that I set throughout the day and it's absolutely a dissexual
 life away.
 And it is so incredibly exhausting.
 It's amazing.
 The things that we talk about at the X-level life, how much time do you spend protecting yourself
 to the person who's protecting to this side, how much time do you spend trying to get
 people's approval?
 Whenever we ask those questions to whoever the person is dealing with one of these situations,
 they always go, oh my gosh.
 So is that response of, oh my gosh?
 16 hours a day is exactly.
 You spend your whole day trying to get worth from somebody.
 And I want to say funny, I want to say sad, it's a combination of both.
 We see the people that can spend all day long trying to get approval and you do
 literally see them physically exhausted at the end of the day.
 That person is just like, I just can't do anymore.
 It's like, what is it that you've been doing all day long?
 Where's your focus, Ben?
 It's trying to prove to people that it's trying to convince people to have really good opinions
 of you, to have really good expectations of.
 You mentioned that you're a high-eye.
 Obviously as we talk a lot on here in the personality styles, DIS and C.
 One of the things we will see I specifically do, I've got a pretty darn good amount of
 eye in me as well, is take on things to impress somebody.
 So a high-eye will try and impress a leader by being that savior.
 Let me take, oh I'll take, I can make that happen.
 I can do that, I can do this thing.
 And what happens is you get to a point where you're at a capacity.
 There's no possible way you can keep doing all the things that are now on your plates
 with excellence.
 And all the things got to fall apart.
 And I remember in my early days of leadership doing that to impress a leader and getting to a point
 of going, well now this is stupid because now I can't do anything great.
 But a lot of folks don't ever see that.
 They want to blame it on the leader.
 They get to the point where they can't impress a leader anymore.
 Think start falling apart.
 The leaders come around and go and wipe your screw and things up.
 And next thing you know, it's the, well you put too much stuff on me.
 And that hope of, you know, the whole time, again, it becomes another self-fulfilling prophecy
 that whole time it was the, I hope I get you to think I'm amazing.
 Here's the problem with all of that.
 It only lasts, let's say that they did have a good opinion.
 It only lasts for five minutes.
 It only lasts for 30 seconds.
 It's not something you don't impress somebody.
 And now their opinion of you is phenomenal and you're full of worth because it just doesn't
 work that way.
 It's something that you have to come back after again and again and again.
 So even if you were trained early on to garner somebody's opinion, maybe you had that parent
 that always held back love because they were insecure.
 And so you kept trying to get it out of them.
 And that brought on a lot of that.
 What happens is as you roll forward, it becomes the you never can get enough.
 And next thing you know, you're failing miserably.
 Yeah, yeah.
 This reminds me of a time in this story.
 I mean, where I was in the heart of this, I was in college and I won some award or something.
 And I remember I was sitting at lunch at the end of a semester and I worked in in this
 very Joel way of sharing that, hey, look at this accolade.
 I was trying to do it in this very humble, like type of a way.
 And one of my peers who is a very high D, she turns and looks at me and she just in
 she was controlling.
 But she absolutely called me out right there in front of everybody.
 And I was like, I was so embarrassed because she's like, she saw exactly what I was trying
 to do.
 And I never forgot it.
 And I actually learned something from it.
 I learned a, hey man, don't do crap like that.
 You know what you're doing.
 Don't do that.
 It's completely unnecessary.
 But guys, I used to do stuff like this all the time because of this right here.
 I need you to approve of me.
 I need you to know that I'm awesome.
 And I'm special and I'm capable because you don't fill it on the inside.
 And so to Chris to your point, it's all the time.
 You've got to come back and have people affirm it.
 And people think that of you all the time anyways, right?
 So it's one of the people to always say, but you have people coming to you.
 Joel is so amazing.
 Oh, Joel is just incredible.
 Oh, Joel did a great job.
 And yet you can still walk into your day.
 And if somebody's not saying it today, all of a sudden that negative self-short comes up,
 I've got to go prove myself to somebody.
 I had that moment probably, I don't know, a week or so ago.
 And I think I shared that with the team where I just caught myself.
 I was going to say something out to somebody.
 And I went, oh my gosh, you know exactly why you're doing that.
 I got off.
 And it was funny because some of our younger folks on the team were like, wow, what'd you do?
 I'm like, I didn't say it.
 And it's just like it was a shock to them.
 I was like, you didn't say it.
 Well, of course I didn't say it.
 I saw what I was doing.
 I called myself out.
 I got worked through the truths.
 This is a lie that I need this.
 Work through the truth and move them.
 That's it.
 But we spend our lives without the tools continuing to do that very same thing.
 Even when somebody-- so I love what you just said, yes, this is a controlling person.
 Yes, they were dominant to you.
 But you could have gone the other direction.
 What a horrible person, what a monster.
 Look at them attacking me.
 That was looking at who they are.
 What are, you know, they're terrible.
 I need to go find somebody else.
 I need to stay away from that ID because they'll catch me.
 I need to go find somebody else to prove myself too.
 Another one I want to hit is the trouble for giving yourself.
 Have you experienced that?
 No, I don't know what that's like.
 I don't know what you speak into that.
 No, I don't think I've ever--
 No, let's move on.
 Yeah, I have.
 I, the first half of my life.
 And decently into years later, still.
 I struggled with guilt.
 I've done.
 I've done people that I've hurt, stupid things that I've done.
 And I'm somebody who does not have a problem calling my own self out.
 I have done stupid.
 I'm a firm believer in the sooner you understand the stupid that you've done.
 The sooner you can get past it.
 The longer it takes, the more you try and protect yourself from anybody knowing that you
 did stupid.
 Oh my gosh, get to the plate.
 No, I've done stupid.
 I've hurt people.
 You know, there's times I've been saying that forever.
 You know, man, I've hurt people.
 I've screwed stuff up.
 I've done stupid.
 And it's funny to watch people's responses.
 They'll just shock.
 Like I can't believe you just said that I love.
 No, no, no.
 I said it out loud for years.
 Why?
 Because it keeps me in a place of going, yep, I've done stupid.
 I am doing stupid now.
 I will do stupid until I transition from this life into the next one.
 It's something I'm very aware of.
 And it keeps me in that place of not trying to hide it.
 It keeps me in that place of not trying to protect myself.
 But until God got me to a place of just smacking me upside the head and saying, you know, how's
 that helping you?
 You know, what are you doing with that?
 And really, I mean, there's a lot of time in my early days of traumatic stuff that I experienced
 where I all I could do with seek out and go, "How do I get to this place of
 forgiveness for giving myself?"
 And being God, he has shown me many ways, especially through King David, a lot of stuff
 in the early days was, you know, showing me stuff that King David did and how he got through
 forgiveness and just a whole lot of stuff, you know, obviously with the whole gospel message.
 It's a very large message and a large kingdom of forgiveness.
 But I had to still get to the place of going, "Okay, here's a whole lot of stuff that I have felt
 guilty for my whole life that I had absolutely nothing to do with.
 This doesn't belong to me.
 It's not mine."
 But people have pushed this feel guilty and separate that out by, "Oh my gosh, here's the
 crap that I have done.
 Here's my stupid."
 A lot of times, victim mentality would say, "Well, it's all everybody else is faulting
 and not looking at the responsibility side and that's pointless."
 That's a colossal waste of time.
 For me, I had to take on all the responsibility of the things that I had done and walk through
 this process with God of saying, "I've screwed up.
 I've hurt people.
 What do I do now?"
 You know, "I've messed things up.
 What do I do now?"
 So, for me, yeah, I have had those times.
 Do I still have those times?
 Let me think through that.
 Do I have trouble for giving myself?
 I have to think about that.
 But I can tell you the first half of my life and even beyond that, some, "Yep, abs of
 stinking, literally."
 Yeah, it was such a lifelong struggle to work through this and we see tons of people who come
 through next to the life.
 We struggle with this as well.
 Because you go back to where we started this conversation that if you believe a lie that you
 have to be perfect, you can never be a failure.
 You self-protect over all that stuff.
 It will hold you back from ever taking personal responsibility and there's freedom in personal
 responsibility.
 When you rush toward personal responsibility, you're not allowing a lie to hold you back from
 rushing there.
 And you can just run right to where did I mess that up?
 Where did I screw up?
 How did I contribute to conflict with my spouse or with whoever you're seeking failure?
 You're not allowing a lie to hold you back that says, "I have to be perfect."
 And you struggle with perfectionism.
 What's lead stall kinds of control problems and worth problems.
 But you're looking for, you're not taking yourself so seriously to have to be, "Oh my gosh,
 I have to be perfect."
 I have to hide my imperfection.
 You're an insecure person who takes themselves extremely seriously in a way of looking at it
 to where I can never, you see the cycles, guys.
 You see the cycles of how you can never get out of it.
 That's what I love about one of the things about next of a life is how is we learn to
 see and identify those cycles and we learn to break them down.
 So we're going to talk about that on what we can do.
 How do we solve some of these things?
 And what does it look like if we don't?
 When we come back right after this?
 Hey folks, here's the deal.
 Every business has a culture.
 But are you leading yours intentionally or settling for whatever comes in the door?
 If you're finally ready to create the company culture you've always wanted, then you're
 going to want to sign up for my free digital video series creating a culture of champions.
 I will personally guide you for 10 days to get clarity on the culture you desire and lead your
 team to embrace it.
 You can sign up at crsacrido.com/culture lesson.
 Again, if you're ready to make a change sign up for my free digital video series creating a
 culture of champions at crsacrido.com/culture lesson.
 We are back and we are talking about not liking ourselves very much.
 What happens when you don't like the person here?
 Yes, it's so good.
 It's so fun.
 And here's the reason why is because this show we don't hit 30,000 foot view stuff.
 We dig in, we help people to solve things.
 We want people to get past this kind of stuff.
 We have tools to help them.
 One of the things I want to hit really quickly before we get into any solution on this is why
 is it so important that we figure this out?
 One of the things when it comes to, we've been talking about it as negative self-talk.
 We've been talking about it as lying to yourself.
 All of that for us falls into the category of self-hate, self-loathing.
 I don't love myself.
 I love myself.
 And really, let me just say it's more important to take a look at what God's love is for
 you than your love for you.
 If you're so focused on you, then you're missing out on him.
 Trust me, you will never love yourself like he loves you.
 But here's what happens when you live in that place, when you live in that space, we have
 a lot of folks that come in.
 First of the people coming in our believers in Jesus Christ and Kingdom of forgiveness.
 But we'll have people that will come in that are non-believers as well and go through the
 process.
 One of the biggest things we see on both sides, believers and non-believers, is this almost
 distant, is disdain too strong for the non-believers to stay in probably, decently spot on,
 for the believers and anger towards God.
 That there is this, I'm mad at him because he's allowed this stuff to happen forever.
 And he is a mean God or a hurtful God.
 And they have this view of God and they don't realize that their belief system, this decision-making
 process, these surface-level responses, the training from their root system, the lies that
 they tell themselves are shaping this image of who God is.
 Now, I will be very clear and very honest.
 God is a God of avenge.
 He's avenge for God.
 There is justice there.
 There is justice, there is tons of mercy, there's tons of love from the moment, Adam and
 Eve sinned.
 God was already setting up salvation from the garden.
 If you don't believe me, go read what he's talking about.
 In that very beginning, he's already setting up redemption.
 From that very beginning, he's protecting them.
 They just did something stupid.
 He actually kicks him out of the garden so that they don't eat from the tree of life and live
 this way forever.
 So he's already protecting.
 He's already talking about her child, which is pointing towards the Messiah, thousands of years
 ahead.
 He has a God who is loving.
 He is long-suffering.
 He is slow to anger.
 But when it gets wicked, he has a God who is loving.
 He will solve problems.
 He will punish.
 He will correct.
 You get five pages in.
 He wiped off most of the people off of the earth because it got so wicked that he took that
 away.
 But the problem is that people just see that God.
 They just see the God in their mind that looks a lot like the parent.
 That was not very loving.
 That looks a lot like the parent who was controlling or even abusive or manipulative.
 So all of this negative self-talk and for a lot of folks, we've had a lot of salvation
 of come through.
 Next level of life and plenty of folks that are non-believers that left non-believers as well.
 But what we see is that attitude towards God is usually based heavily on the experience
 with human beings and this negative self-talk about themselves.
 Speak to that.
 I love what you're bringing up here because when you think about why is this so important,
 just to bring that full circle and make sure that's super clear.
 You're talking about your relationship with God here and you're talking about your
 life.
 You're telling yourself, if that's your belief system, as I love to say, and behave your
 follow belief.
 If your belief system is God is only this way, what behavior is going to follow them.
 If you're not going to see God, you're not going to see obedience because God says, "Seek
 obedience because you love me."
 Not because I have a gun to your head and you just freely do it when you love your father.
 It's just like in a great parent child relationship.
 But it compromises your entire relationship.
 Possibly your eternity let alone the day-to-day decisions of how you operate your life
 without faith and without God in it.
 And the more that I grow and that, the more I see there is to that comment that I just made
 of even peace and contentment and how I treat Mary Beth and how I treat our four kids and
 the team here and you and other people that it's all directly linked because of my relationship
 with God.
 If I focused on him as only a, I'm unworthy, he's mean, he's just angry.
 Look at the cascade of decisions that can follow that and how detrimental that can be in your
 life.
 I always tell people never apply anything you've experienced with men as the characteristics
 of God, even from the good sides which is great, that's fantastic.
 Here's what we do, God is way greater than any characteristics that we have as human beings,
 but don't apply the negative characteristics that you see in men to God because what happens
 is you just pointed this out, you may be missing out on eternity with him because of something
 you experienced with a human being.
 It was something that you experienced with somebody who is controlling and selfish and self-centered.
 God lovingly corrects praise God.
 There is a doctrine of suffering when it comes to God.
 He uses suffering to grow us.
 He uses suffering to bring us closer to him.
 He allows that to happen in our lives to draw us closer to him.
 When it comes to man, man usually uses suffering to punish us for them's their own worth, their
 own insecurities, their own struggles.
 So when we don't realize how much the negative self-talk, the lies, the self-sabotage, the self-loathing,
 all of that affects us, we definitely don't understand how it affects things like our relationships.
 We don't see how it affects our relationship with the most important being God.
 But we also don't recognize it, this is a super important thing and believers need to hear.
 Everybody needs to hear this, but understand if you don't love God, you don't love people
 very well either.
 You can convince yourself you do.
 But if you don't recognize all the things that God has done for you and become incredibly
 thankful, that's the goal.
 The more I learn what he's done for me and that he has given me eternity with him and that
 he's taken away my sins and there's this kingdom of forgiveness, then I love him more.
 I recognize what he's done for me and that causes me to love him more, love myself more,
 love people more.
 Right, I love the team, my wife, my family, it just changes the way my heart is towards
 people when I don't love God.
 When I think he's just this horrible guy, this horrible being, then what happens is, is that
 becoming incredibly selfish, incredibly self-centered, self-protective, self-sabotaging,
 all of those pieces.
 And I lack massive authenticity.
 That's another big piece that we talked about in the past.
 There's a whole lot of that.
 We talk a lot about that next time of life.
 When I am operating in all of these surface-level responses to self-protect, what happens is the
 authentic Christlecartil goes away.
 And this guy shows up who has to protect himself and impress the crap out of people.
 So what do we do about this?
 But if we're going to start, we're mentioning some of these things, the tools, root system,
 perspective, self-awareness, and all this kind of stuff, what are some steps we can take
 to self-manage?
 So I think one angle, the one place you can start, guys, is first of all, is seek awareness
 of where you're struggling.
 If you can't see that, you will never get anywhere.
 So when you come through next-sub-a-life, you're not only going to get that, but you're going to
 get deep into why.
 And where does this come from?
 But short of coming to next-sub-a-life is we've got to seek out where are we struggling?
 What do I call those things?
 There's power and definition.
 And I can see what I'm struggling with.
 And if you recognize like, "Wow, I am struggling with self-loathing.
 I do struggle with self-hate."
 I do. And then when you go from there, go to then, what are you telling yourself?
 Where is your brain focusing?
 What negatives is it focusing on?
 What lies are you focusing on?
 And sometimes you have to slow down.
 Those are two words I use in next-sub-a-life all the time.
 And when I'm coaching people, is we operate just--
 Boom, boom, boom, boom, move onto the next thing.
 We just get so fixated, maybe on those negatives.
 But we're not in a problem-solving mindset.
 We're just in a kind of a protective or ice-suck mindset, which is, you're not problem-solving.
 So mindset-wise, I have to go to problem-solving.
 What's up with me?
 This is where I'm struggling.
 This is what it's called.
 What am I telling myself?
 And then we have to get to truth and quality perspective.
 Because this is about using rational brain, logical brain,
 over-emotional, or sometimes irrational brain.
 There's power in that when we slow down and practice steps like this.
 One of the things we ask people when you look at the lot--
 so, well, let me back up before that.
 One of the things we'll ask somebody when they're struggling is, what's the light of telling yourself right now?
 And sometimes people go, I'm not telling myself, what are you telling yourself?
 I'm saying this. Is that truth?
 No. Then you're lying to yourself.
 Here it is. You can see that.
 We see it all the time and folks.
 We see them go into the struggle.
 We see family members do this.
 We see people that we know.
 People that we work with clients.
 We see it all the time.
 You can see the person going into the struggle.
 And one of the best questions to ask, if you're not using this to manipulate somebody,
 is, hey, what's the light you're telling yourself right now?
 And if somebody can trust you because you're not being controlling your abusive,
 then they can actually stop and go, oh my gosh, I'm telling myself that,
 you know, I'm not good enough or I always fail or your opinion of me is that I'm stupid or,
 you know, and all of a sudden they can see that light.
 They can see the light that's right there.
 And so, a big key to this is to recognize the light that you tell yourself
 because that's going to point to where you're struggling immensely.
 If I'm worried about people's everything is going to come back to self-worth.
 We were just talking about this all the time.
 But if I'm struggling with somebody's opinion,
 then I'm probably already creating that opinion in my mind.
 I'm already saying they don't like me.
 I'm already saying they've judged me by my clothing.
 They've judged me by the car that I drive.
 They judge me by the report that I turned in last week.
 Whatever that is, and I don't even know the truth necessarily.
 I'm probably creating this. So one of the things we'll say is that an emotional
 liar in an intellectual life, which is funny because it kind of stops people in their
 track and go, what's the difference?
 Well, an emotional lie is something that you're creating in the moment that you don't have
 great basis for, you don't know if it's truth, you don't know if it's going to happen.
 If it has happened, if it's, you know, any of that stuff.
 An intellectual lie will be a lie about something that's already a fact that you know the
 fact about. It is ball. Well, of course, it's not intellectual then.
 Because you don't know any facts about it. And so it wouldn't make sense to lie to yourself
 about something you already know the facts. Well, yeah, so it's an emotional lie.
 Yep. So why are you emotionally lying to yourself?
 And then you can start to see, oh my gosh, like you just said a few minutes ago,
 it's not a logical thing that I'm telling myself. It's an irrational thought. It's the irrational
 brain. I'm rationally coming up with something. And I'm spending time on it. Not just to
 come up, I mean, for you and I, I mean, we get through, you know, the irrational thoughts, the self
 realized pretty quickly. I mean, we can get over those, you know, a lot of times it's five
 seconds you recognize it. You get through it with the truth, boom, you're over it. But for a lot of
 folks, and this was us back in the day as well, I can, I'll speak for myself. No, it's true.
 There are times I'd spend days on it. Yeah. You know, in the early half of my life, the younger half
 of my life, I could spend days convincing myself that somebody thought I was crap, that somebody thought
 I wasn't good enough. That's somebody thought that I, we were talking the other day. We had a
 client in the other day. We were talking cars. And we talked about how in youth ministry back in the mid 90s.
 I turned, I sold my favorite truck, old beat up truck. But I love that thing. Big old fast engine,
 headers, class packs, tall tire, just love that truck because I had convinced myself that all the other
 youth leaders were judging me on my vehicle. And I have missed that truck for what is that now? 25 years?
 I have missed that vehicle because I convinced myself of what somebody thought and here's the funny thing
 afterwards when I went and showed them all my new used car, my new ear used car, everybody's like,
 "Oh, that's great. What did you use to drive?" Nobody knew what I had driven before. And the funny
 thing is, I have wanted that truck back for a ramb still looking. But if you have Chris's truck, if you have
 my truck, bring it by a FIN number 873, did you look it up yet? No, I don't do, I don't even know if I could find
 that. But that was the discussion as maybe we could find it through the van, who knows?
 72, 3/4 of Dunshavy pickups. There you go. I'm going to be at the office one day. I'm going to
 say that I miss it. So if we can catch ourselves like you shared, if we can catch the thing is, if we can
 define it and say, this is the thing that I'm struggling with. We always tell people it's not difficult
 to see what you're struggling with, what we teach them is the why. Because coming in, we have some
 folks that they don't even recognize the what, but we'll have a good number of folks that can see the
 what. They're like, I know what it is. And then we help them to see that why that phenomenal tool that
 releases all of that. But so once we get to that place, what else can we do? So well then, when you
 operate with that perspective, because you're going to get triggered, you're going to be triggered.
 And one of the key, like you're seven year old tells you. And they say exactly.
 No, you're you triggered? Because I've had a, are you struggling with your system right now?
 You're struggling with worth. Aren't you? Is that you then start practicing your information?
 Is that you have to practice using perspective to self-manage when you get triggered? So
 reactively when you get triggered, recognize what's going on, battle lies with truth, what's
 perspective here. At times, what is my responsibility here? Sometimes we get triggered off something and
 we want to hide from failure rather than being like, you know what, I should be. That's me.
 I don't hide from it. Oh, and again, there's freedom in personal responsibility.
 And then we ought when we get root system level information, we have to remember just like we
 teach. Hey, other people have a root system. That's important for you. You know, well, honor yourself
 as well. Exactly. Real, you realize, hey, remember, where did this come from? This is an ingrained
 or trained behavior. And when we operate with perspective, we're not operating in just pure
 raw emotion anymore, in getting obliterated by it and living in a shame cycle or living in a place where
 you hate the person in the mirror. You just don't like yourself anymore because you're not operating
 with inequality perspective when you're in that place. So you have to remember and know this
 information about yourself. That's why I tell people and they come to the next of a life.
 I said, don't let this be a two-day experience. Keep the information in front of you
 because one of the reasons why you get really good at this is because you memorize it. You know yourself
 so well that you're able to be like boom, I'm past it. I just work through that thing. Then it's
 rinse washer pre- when rinse washer beats. I'm so judging your English right now. You should feel
 really bad. That was a test to see if you judge me. I said it on purpose. So, right off,
 right off over joking around this. We're right off the bat. Right off the bat. Right off the bat. So,
 but proactively is what this is reactive. Proactively is that I mean as a believer,
 growing in your relationship with God is absolutely the number one most important thing we should do.
 And it's easy to hear that as a believer who's grown up in, you know, in church your whole life and be like,
 yeah, yeah, yeah, I know that. We're not talking about, we're on. First devotional each morning.
 I'm talking about your one-on-one deep intimate relationship with God. I'm not talking about just a
 using the Bible or using faith as a coping mechanism. Making him more important meant
 I'm talking about it making it reality is a reality from from life. So, that's where we've got to be as
 believers because we need to be growing in our worth as well. We need to be really knowing truth about what is God's say.
 Not that we're perfect. We're still broken. We still sin. We still fail. That's just that's
 we're there. We're humans. But we don't have to live in guilt and shame over that. We can live in truth.
 Yeah, we learned this a couple years ago going to Israel. A Eastern mindset compared to a
 Western mindset. We live in this Western culture where a lot of pastors, a lot of church leaders will say,
 read the Bible for what it says about you, which is a ridiculous statement. But I will say it's one that I used to
 believe as well. And then when we were in the Middle East, what we learned is they have a different perspective.
 They're like, it's not about you. It's about God. Learn him. If you learn about him, you'll learn about you.
 And man, what a huge shift in perspective of going, you know, everything, you know, here we ask the
 question, well, how did God park the Red Sea? Over there they're like, you're kidding, right? He made the
 water. He made the land. He made the earth. He made the universe. He can definitely move it around.
 Yeah. Ask the question, why would he do it? It's just a completely different perspective.
 When you look at yourself in your relationship and you start to recognize how God sees you.
 When you learn him and you learn his, you know, there is one theme from the front to that book to the
 back of that book in its redemption. It is his love, it is his redeeming power, it is him setting us up to
 have eternity with them if we go after it. And if we don't, well, then we choose to turn it without him.
 That is his love for us. And when you start to see that he is that great of a loving father.
 And he's somebody who's crazy about us, then all of a sudden you start to change the way you look at
 yourself. If I look at man's opinion, all I see is the things I come up with in my mind or the things
 that I experience. You know, maybe I've got a parent that doesn't think I'm good enough or, you know,
 I can never get their attention or they're, you know, they withhold what ever it is.
 But then I can look at God who has pursued my heart, my whole life.
 What does that say about my worth? Do I compare my worth to a created being or to the creator of the
 being, right? The more I see that relationship with him and I understand him, I see him,
 the more I see myself, the more I see my worth in his eyes. The last thing I want to just kind of hit right
 here is that man's opinion. So much of what we are talking about is built on how to other people
 see me, what do they think about me, how do they experience me? As long as you are stuck on the opinions
 of others, then you're always going to operate yourself in a corns of trying to control those opinions.
 If I can get you to think that I'm amazing, if I can get you to not think that I'm stupid, if I can
 get you to think that I'm brilliant, if I can get you to think that I'm attractive, if I can, I mean,
 take a look at social media we talk about it all the time. If you're ridiculous, how much we try to
 control people's thoughts about us? If I can convince myself that I can do that, then I succeed.
 But what we always say is, last for five minutes, now I gotta go do it again. If I can get past those
 lies, that negative self-talking to myself, man, I'll be honest to your opinion, just as a matter.
 Now, if it's a good opinion, not a self-esteem crap, I don't believe in self-esteem, self-worth,
 self-respect, absolutely self-esteem could go out the window because it's saying you're a good
 person no matter what you do. Screw that noise. Take responsibility, understand your worth.
 But if I see that your opinions or your judgment or your whatever is not healthy for me,
 great, get it out of your life. Remove it. I'll get it out of my life. If I can see that it's supportive,
 even if it's calling my butt out, it's to help not to hurt. Hey, Chris, here's something I see
 screwing up on. Hey, Chris, here's something that I experienced with you. Hey, Chris, whatever.
 Hopefully it's got some positives in there, because I'm gonna take it better when you hit me with the
 gut punches. But if I can see that, then I can see that your opinions of me are for me, not against me.
 Not talking about victim mentality, not talking about blowing sunshine up somebody's skirt, or I wonder if
 a lot of people don't know what that's saying means. It's nothing bad. I don't think I've ever
 said that on the show. I just swear that's the easiest. Trust me. It's okay. It's nothing bad.
 Not fluffing somebody up. Let's just say that. But being honest, truly caring about somebody.
 If I can understand who I need to remove as far as their opinion and who I need more of,
 not to make me feel better, but to get me healthier, then it changes the way I look at people's opinions.
 And he thoughts on that. Yeah, a lot. I mean, it just, it really... Show could really go on for four
 hours. It really goes to it's guys. It's checking who's your influence. Who are you listening to?
 I mean, just because you grew up at times even with parents. This is not a dishonoring thing.
 What I'm talking about here, I'm talking about not everyone's parents are perfect.
 And just because you grow up, nobody's on that. Exactly. And you grow up and you look back and you
 realize, "Wow, actually the opinion of my father there was really not a very good opinion." Not a health
 son. Okay, all right. And you are shifting in life to actually seek healthier influence in opinion.
 It's really checking who is in your life today and really taking getting a really good perspective on
 what kind of influence am I really allowing in? Because again, that's affecting today's decisions.
 It's affecting today's emotional struggles or lack thereof. Yeah, we seek each other's opinions.
 There's been multiple times something's happened. I've turned to you. I'm like, Joel, what'd you see?
 What can you tell me about that? Give me a gap on you. Because I know that it's a healthy process.
 Here's the key. God's never going to give you a better opinion. God's opinion is always going to be truth.
 No matter what it is. Very good, doctor. He's pretty good. Whether it's hey, you're sucking
 or hey, you're doing a great job, whatever it is, it's going to be honest. So things to wrap this up,
 you've got to focus on getting to that place of understanding that a lot of stuff has come from your root system.
 It's affecting the way that you think. It's affecting the way that you judge people. It's affecting the way that you judge yourself.
 Telling yourself, negative self-talk is never having that negative self-talk lying to yourself is only going to keep you perpetuating the problem.
 It's going to keep you self-protecting and keep you from going after healthier stuff.
 The sooner you recognize that if you will face these things, take responsibility for your actions,
 take responsibility for the stupid that you've done because everybody has done stupid.
 And not care about other people's opinions. I'm not saying if you've hurt somebody, then go back and
 ask for forgiveness, make it right. Do whatever you can. It's not walking away, going,
 "Well, I don't care about you. I only care about myself." It's the sooner you recognize that you do stupid.
 The sooner you can focus on fixing the stupid. And again,
 we have a ton of tools that we teach and we have so much more of this in the next level of life.
 Understand the more that you focus on him and his obedience and being obedient to him,
 it will change the rest of your life. Any last thoughts?
 No, I hate ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate
 you. I hate ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate
 ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate
 ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate
 ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate ridiculous. I hate
 people who need to hear this. Share this with them. Help them to get this. I would bet money. There's
 somebody on your mind right now. Maybe it's just you. You're like, no, I'm all they get about me.
 I would bet money. There's somebody else on your mind right now. Share this with them and help them
 to get some help. If you need to go through next level of life and trust me, you do. Make the decision.
 All you got to do is just get information on it. Go to christlacrilo.com and click on next level
 life and just get information. That's all you need to do. Well folks, as always, take this information,
 change your leadership, change your business, change your life. I enjoy this on the next episode. There we go.