 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardos Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 [MUSIC]
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 Today we are talking again about surviving in a world of monsters and victims.
 And really if you haven't listened to the last show you probably want to go back, but
 we're going to recap a little bit of this stuff to kind of talk through and remind us what
 we're talking about and the struggles and the things that we're experiencing.
 We're talking about what it's like to label and judge others.
 And we're not really spending a whole lot of time on the labeling of others what we're doing
 is we're taking a look at why, why are we doing that?
 Why are we spending time?
 Why is there this kind of default mode of me versus them or us versus them mentality, right?
 Why am I spending time having to tell somebody, even if I'm just saying it in my head,
 for which we do live in this fantastic social media crazed age where we feel like we can tell
 everybody every thought that we have in our head, including how horrible they are and how terrible
 they are.
 So why are we doing that?
 Why am I doing that?
 Why am I judging somebody and labeling somebody and saying either in my mind or to them, which is
 usually not face to face, but how horrible they are?
 Well, for some of you it is face to face and we're in those holidays seasons where yep,
 it's definitely going to be face to face, right?
 So why are we doing that?
 Why do we live in this me versus that person mentality or this us versus them mentality?
 Here's a crazy thing, we are so conditioned, we are so amazingly conditioned by social media
 to label other people.
 I can't say this scientifically, but it's something I actually do believe.
 I think one Twitter came out with the 140 characters that I think people got really succinct
 at giving opinion.
 I think they got really succinct at giving judgment.
 I think they got really succinct at being able to express something to somebody.
 If they were mad, they could do it fast.
 I think people got better at labeling.
 I think when you look at the responses, the ability to go and put long responses on things
 like Facebook or Instagram or whatever else, then you can share your epistle to somebody at
 how pissed off you are at them and how much you think they are terrible and horrible because
 they believe something that you don't believe.
 I think we have been so conditioned and I'm not saying that's what social media did not start
 this, it's been around for thousands of years, but we have become a society that is really
 good at it.
 Really good at it.
 And why?
 There are studies on this.
 There are studies that show that it is much easier for me to be detrimental to somebody else,
 to be hateful to somebody else when I don't see them face to face.
 It is much easier for me to make a comment to somebody about that very person over social media.
 Here's the crazy part.
 If you look up some of these studies what you'll see is when those people see each other face
 to face, they respond as though they never said anything bad because they didn't feel the
 pain of looking that person in the eyes and seeing how they're hurting them, how they're
 affecting them.
 The same thing with gossip, right?
 When we gossip about somebody and that person is not in the conversation because that really wouldn't
 be gossip in the conversation.
 That would be a ham just literally telling everybody about you with you standing here.
 When we gossip, they're usually not here.
 They're not in the conversation.
 So we don't see the pain of what's going on with that person.
 We've been conditioned to do this really well.
 There's an old story where a guy goes to a rabbi and he says to him, "Rabbi, I feel really
 really bad.
 I just, I gossiped about so-and-so.
 I told everybody that that person did this and I really shouldn't have done that.
 What can I do?
 What can I do to fix it?"
 The rabbi says, "Do you have a really good pillow at home?"
 Yeah, yeah.
 Is it like one of those really good, those feather pillows?
 Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
 Go get that.
 And bring that to me.
 I'ma guys like that's it.
 Yeah, that's it.
 Just go get the pillow.
 Wow, this is much easier than I thought it would be.
 So it goes home and gets his pillow brings it back to the rabbi and the rabbi says, "Okay,
 now open it up.
 Here's what he means.
 You just open it up.
 Open the pillow.
 Yeah, open the pillow up.
 He opened the pillow up and it happened to be a very windy day and the feathers went everywhere.
 And he goes, "So that's my punishment.
 I don't get to have my pillow anymore.
 He goes, "Nope."
 Now go pick up every feather and put it back in that pillow case.
 He goes, "Well, rabbi, that's absolutely impossible.
 They're gone."
 He goes exactly.
 That's what you do when you gossip.
 You can never bring that back.
 You can never take that back.
 You've put that out there.
 Now you're hurting people.
 Now you're affecting people.
 And as we talked about on the first part of this, the reason why we do this is because
 we are hurting inside.
 We are struggling with worth.
 We are struggling with believing that we are worthy enough or good enough.
 And that is why we do what we do.
 Because if you're actually feeling really good about yourself, if you're finding your
 worth in the only place, you can get it 24/7, 365 and that being Jesus.
 You're going to show a hummushiaq, God Almighty.
 If you're getting your worth from God, then guess what?
 The last thing you want to do is go rip other people apart and hurt other people.
 But unfortunately, we spend a lot of time in pain.
 We spend a lot of time labeling ourselves.
 We spend a lot of time hurting other people because we are hurting.
 So that is the fun and exciting discussion that we're having on the show today.
 We're going to talk more about this when we come back right after this.
 Next level of life is our two-day personal discovery experience.
 It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover
 your root system, to get unstuck in life and discover what's holding you back from freedom
 and peace.
 Imagine this.
 What if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose?
 What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict?
 Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years, if you had clarity, purpose, and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today.
 Now I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself, is there more?
 There is a better way and it starts with the next level of life.
 You can go to Chrissacrid.com/discover to take the next step.
 If you're struggling with this contentment, regret or not feeling good enough, which most of
 you are, if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking, don't keep going
 through the same motions every single day.
 Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace.
 Go to Chrissacrid.com/discover and take the next step.
 Okay, Chris, you got me.
 Yes, I know.
 I understand.
 Yes, I label people.
 Yes, I make people in the monsters.
 Yes, I make myself into a victim.
 What the heck?
 Why do I do it?
 Well, because we're struggling.
 Yes, you already mentioned that.
 Yes, we do that.
 Yes, I'm hurting.
 Yes, I'm not happy about that.
 But why do I self-protect?
 And why do I self-sabotage?
 And why do I self-isolate?
 Why do I do those things?
 Because you believe that you're protecting yourself from somebody who's going to hurt you or
 you've convinced yourself that people want to hurt you.
 These are people that are out to hurt you.
 Why?
 Because you've probably been hurt in the past.
 There's no probably to that.
 You've been hurt in the past.
 You've experienced that before.
 You've experienced pain.
 You've experienced loss.
 Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 So why is that so bad?
 Well, once again, when we live in that negative mindset that what we're doing is we're making
 everything about us and our world negative.
 When we live in that negative mindset of judging other people or judging ourselves, then we
 stay in those negative feelings, discussions, lies that we tell ourselves.
 We end up living in a judgmental mindset.
 It makes it very difficult for us to shift that mindset.
 As it becomes a way for it, force of habit thinking.
 What is the force of habit that we constantly tell ourselves, all of these bad things about
 ourselves over and over again, and then we believe we can't do anything about it.
 And we believe that we can't change it.
 And we believe that we have to feel the things that we're feeling are experienced, the things
 that we're experiencing.
 We live in that negative mindset.
 And then what do we do?
 Now we get pissed.
 We get pissed at the world.
 We get pissed and we go on rants.
 And we rant online and we rant to people or we feel like we have to share with everybody
 our unhappiness or the things that we're experiencing in life.
 We don't realize with those short-term rants that they actually have long-term consequences.
 Why?
 Because they affect our relationships.
 They affect the way that we feel about ourselves.
 There is a fantastic video.
 Man, we'll put it in the notes.
 We'll put it in the notes.
 There's this fantastic.
 So there's this great violinist named Lindsay Sterling.
 I was not at this concert, but I got a great text from my wife, from the concert about this
 video that she played.
 And she played this video where there's this, man, I'm going to kind of cause I screw this up.
 Hope maybe I won't.
 Maybe I'll nail this.
 I think it was a Japanese scientist who took water.
 And he either had times of speaking positive terms to the water or speaking negative terms
 to the water.
 There were times he was speaking joyfully to the water and had other people doing this.
 There was times he was speaking hateful things to the water.
 He would do these things and you just got to see this for yourself.
 Once again, it's in the show notes.
 So make sure if you're listening on your iPhone, you can scroll in the notes underneath my
 face and click on the link.
 And he would do all of these things that are positive things, good things, healthy things, and
 then all of these negative and unhealthy things to the water.
 Just saying them, talking badly, having bad attitudes, they use terms like Hitler.
 They use terms like peace and joy and God and all kinds of stuff, right?
 And then he would freeze the water immediately after that.
 And then take a look at the crystals that were in the water.
 Folks, there's no possible way I can explain this well enough on this show.
 Only because you're listening to me, not saying me.
 This is something you need to see.
 You need to see what it looks like, how water creation of God, something that God created,
 how water responds to positivity and how water responds to negativity, how water responds
 to love, how water responds to hate.
 Well, it's great.
 That's fantastic.
 But what does that have to do with me?
 Hey, what are you mostly made up of?
 Well, right now, negative self-talk.
 Yes, okay.
 Physically, what are you mostly made up of?
 Water.
 You, my friend, God created and you're like, what?
 I believe it's 70% water.
 So guess what happens when you spend time telling you that you suck?
 Guess what happens when you spend time telling you that you're not good enough.
 You're not worthy enough.
 Guess what happens when you allow people to tell you hateful things.
 It hasn't effect on you.
 It hasn't effect on your body.
 It hasn't effect on your brain.
 It hasn't effect on your emotional state.
 It hasn't effect on your physical being.
 It hasn't effect on every aspect of you.
 This is why it's so important that we learn to put tools in place and get rid of this
 crap.
 We live in a world of false narrative.
 We live in a world where we create monsters.
 We live in a world where we make ourselves victims.
 We live in a world that's out of control.
 And that world is just right inside of our brain.
 Right?
 So yes, is that am I talking about the world we live in physically, absolutely?
 Guess what?
 All of that is happening inside of us as well.
 And it's got to stop.
 You got to get unstuck.
 You got to get unstuck.
 You've got to get unstuck.
 Don't live in this world like this any longer.
 Does that mean that it doesn't ever creep back up?
 No, not it.
 That is not what I'm saying at all.
 I experience it all the time.
 We just have tools here that we get rid of it pretty darn quickly.
 It's important though to get those tools in place.
 Because here's what happens with me.
 I spend a heck of a lot more of my time living in a happy place and a more joyous place.
 And those times that I do allow it to come back where it used to be all the time, I can in
 a matter of minutes feel myself not feeling good and want to get out as fast as possible.
 But keep in mind, I used to live in that.
 Keep in mind, there was a whole chunk of my life where it was just negative.
 Right?
 And I had those negative thoughts.
 I had that negative self-talk.
 So I'm not saying that you can make it go away.
 What I'm saying is you can make it go away as soon as it pops up.
 And as long as you are continuing to stay focused on that, you'll keep it away for a while.
 But something will come.
 You just need the tools to get it to go away as fast as possible.
 So all of this we're saying we're really wrestling with ourselves.
 Yes, there are people in your life that have said bad things to you.
 Yes, there are controlling people, manipulative people that have told you bad things about yourself.
 But here's a deal.
 If you are an adult, you're responsible for your own thoughts and feelings.
 Right?
 What we're really wrestling with is ourselves, not others.
 We are flawed as well as the people that we judge.
 And the people that we are discriminated against are not
 condemning ourselves because we are treating people in a way that is so horrible and yet we do the same stuff that they do.
 Keep that in mind.
 Keep that in mind.
 So back to why it's so easy for us to label other people so quickly.
 It's simple.
 We're experts in seeing the thing that we hate.
 How do we know?
 Because we hate the things and other people that we hate in ourselves.
 It's easy for me to see something in somebody else that I hate about them because there's a 99.99% chance I hate that very thing in me.
 Maybe that's a little high, but it's probably not too high.
 Do I hate people who do things that I don't do, abs of stink and looling?
 Obviously, I've never chopped somebody's head off, so hating somebody who does that's pretty legit.
 But what am I talking about?
 I'm talking about the labeling and the judging, right?
 The making of monsters.
 Why do I make a monster?
 Somebody else?
 Why do I label somebody else?
 Well, it's pretty simple because I'm seeing something in them that I don't like in me.
 I'm not saying that there isn't evil in the world.
 Of course there is evil in the world.
 But here's a funny thing for those of you who are Bible scholars.
 Go back in the beginning of the Bible to the expulsion of the garden, show me where God blames Satan.
 Help me with that one.
 Once you can send the scripture verse to be a podcast at christlicker.com, I would love to see
 the part where God blames Satan.
 He does not.
 Guess who he blames?
 The humans.
 The people.
 Because of the evil inclination.
 You have to examine your own heart.
 You have to examine you.
 If you are labeling and judging the crap out of other people, look at you.
 Take a look at you.
 Of course, again, there are angry, hurtful people in the world.
 We help you to put healthy boundaries in place with those folks.
 There's people out there spewing venom and bullying others.
 We get that.
 But today, what are we talking about?
 We're talking about you.
 We're talking about me.
 We're talking about us.
 Now without any doubt, we should be avoiding those other people.
 But what happens if you're the one?
 What if you're the one who's spewing venom?
 What if you're the bully?
 What if the only person you bully is you?
 That's really hard to get away from you.
 So here's what we're going to do.
 We're going to talk about how to escape this world that we've created when we come back right
 after this.
 What if I told you that it's possible to grow your business, develop your leadership, and
 even make your team successful right now where you are even in the middle of an economic
 crisis.
 Leaders, let me ask you this, what are you doing right now to make a positive impact on your
 future growth and stability?
 The next level leadership live event is what I've learned in 25 years of leading successful
 businesses and teams all packed into a three day event.
 It's powerful.
 It's practical and you'll walk away with a plan in your hand to grow your small business
 without hiring more people and spending a ton of money.
 You'll get the perspective you need to grow your business and build a stronger team.
 The skills I'm going to teach you, you will be able to go home and implement immediately.
 Registration for the next level leadership live event opens on Cyber Monday.
 If you're ready to move your business, your leadership and your team forward to make them
 better than they are today, then join us at the next level leadership live event.
 The best price for the event will only be available that day and the Cyber Monday
 deal expires at midnight on Monday, November 30th.
 Go to christlacardo.com/liveavent or text live event one word to the number 444222 to be
 notified as soon as registration is open.
 Again, that's christlacardo.com/liveavent or text live event to 444222.
 Okay, christlacardo.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com/liveavent.com
 Until you get to it, you can't do something about it.
 How can you solve something you're not aware of?
 So a big caveat to self-awareness is vulnerability.
 You've got to be able to look at you.
 You've got to be able to look at you so that you can be aware of what you're doing, how you're
 treating yourself, what you're saying to yourself, what you're causing inside of you.
 And then folks, you got to take responsibility to do something about it.
 Now, how are we going to fix this, get unstuck and untangled?
 Obviously, we can't fix everything on the show, but we're going to give you some steps of
 what you can do right, stinking now to get unstuck or get untangled.
 So number one is we have to see that we're perpetuating this false reality.
 Once again, self-awareness, we have to see what we're doing.
 We keep moving this false reality forward.
 Every time it's like feeding it, right?
 We keep feeding that false reality by continuing to tell ourselves, yes, this is true.
 Yes, this is existence.
 Yes, I can't do anything about this.
 Yes, all those things that actually puff that false reality up and make it huge and big
 and seem real.
 The more you recognize that we're perpetuating this, the sooner you recognize you become
 self-aware that you're perpetuating it, the sooner you can start stopping it.
 Yes, I did just say start stopping it.
 The sooner you can stop it.
 Number two is we have to gain perspective to understand others and communicate well.
 If we're going to stop labeling and judging other people, we have to recognize first our
 own negative self-talk and then what are we putting on others because we are struggling
 with ourselves because we are hurting because we are self-loading or self-hating in the moment, right?
 So gain perspective about other people that will help you not to label them and will help
 you not to make monsters out of them.
 Not saying that there aren't bad people.
 I'm just saying, listen, if you're going to help you, you've got to stop labeling other people
 and judging other people, right?
 Don't worry about the sawdust in there.
 I'll take a hard look at the plank that we got in our own eye.
 Number three is we have to have humility.
 If we're going to accept what's going on and take responsibility for our own faults, we have
 to be humble in the situation, right?
 We have to have humility in the situation.
 If you take a look at second Samuel 12, we see that the prophet Nathan comes to David the
 king after he's done some pretty crappy stuff and Nathan confronts him.
 So Nathan the prophet comes before David the king, when confronted with the sin of another, David
 flew into a rage, demanding justice.
 And then the prophet revealed that he was the one that he was talking about.
 It was David's sin.
 Thankfully, David had the humility to confess it and repent.
 If you want to see the humility of recognizing one's own sin, that is a fantastic piece of
 the Bible right there.
 Second Samuel 12, how did he do this?
 How was David able to repent so quickly, believe or not, amazing self-awareness?
 David was somebody who did a lot of stuff.
 David sinned against Manelot.
 There's a lot of stuff and he was also a phenomenal king as well, right?
 He had a lot of flaws, guess what?
 So just Chris LeCardo.
 I could not be somebody who points at King David and goes, "Oh, look at how bad he was.
 Why?
 Because I'm done a whole lot of bad stuff too."
 So looking at King David's specific situation, what do we see?
 The three things that we're talking about right now.
 One, he had self-awareness.
 He understood, and by the way, at this point, he knew what he was perpetuating.
 He knew what was going on.
 So here's something that a lot of people don't understand.
 Yeraya, believe it or not, actually knew what was going on.
 That's why he would never leave the King's palace.
 That's why he wouldn't go home to his wife.
 He was actually a kind of an emotional slap in the face to King David.
 That's what he was doing.
 That's why he stayed there at the door.
 So for those of you that actually understand the story of what happened, that will make a heck of
 a lot more sense.
 That also makes a heck of a lot more sense.
 Why King David got pissed off because of his own sin and somebody was facing him with it.
 So by the time, so he knew when Nathan the prophet shows up and turns this around and says,
 "I'm talking about you.
 He knew he understood.
 He gained perspective."
 That was one of the things, as you read through the story, what you'll see is he's definitely
 gaining some perspective in this.
 And then number three, he had the humility to go.
 That's it.
 Enough is enough.
 I can't do this anymore.
 I cannot do this anymore.
 And he fell down.
 For those of us that have been through a lot, for those of us that have sinned a lot and I will
 tell you, "You will hear me.
 My team hears it all the time.
 People in next level of life hear it all the time.
 I have no problem saying I have done a lot of stupid in this life.
 I'm very self-aware.
 I'm aware that I've hurt people, that I've done disgusting things, I've done stupid things."
 The person who has a hard time saying that is the person who's not living with humility.
 Now, I am not in any way trying to promote myself or brag about myself.
 I'm not happy with any of the crap that I've done in my life.
 Here's what I am telling you.
 So if you're misunderstanding this and you feel the, if you feel the need to judge me and
 think you're better than me, man, go after it.
 That's great.
 I'm sure you are.
 Here's the reason why I'm so aware of my sin because it helps me to get through it and over
 it faster.
 It helps me to be more humble when I'm stuck in it.
 It helps me to be more humble when I'm doing something wrong.
 So the sooner you get to this place of being very aware of what you've done, what a sin.
 Doing against God's commands.
 You ask the average Christian nowadays what a sin they will struggle to actually give you an answer
 because they don't read his word enough.
 Sin is going against God's commands, period.
 If you're listening to people tell you that you do not have to follow God's commands because
 Jesus took that all away, you do not understand the Bible.
 Go read Matthew 517-1319.
 You'll see what Jesus says about that.
 Jesus is the problem with sin.
 It causes us to live away from God.
 It causes us to separate ourselves away from God.
 Why was David so humble in that moment?
 Because he knew he had separated himself from God.
 And he knew he did some pretty painful things.
 So great.
 I've got those three things.
 I've got those three steps.
 Fantastic.
 Were the crap as is coming from.
 Well, it could be a lot of things.
 It could be a root system.
 But we see more than not.
 And the root system is the basis of our next level of life event.
 There are things that you have been taught.
 You've been trained that you've experienced in life that have created this belief system.
 That creates these lies that you tell yourself that creates what we call surface level
 responses that everybody can kind of see that they do.
 They can see we call it the what.
 You can see that you're doing something.
 You can see that you're self-loathing.
 You can see your defensive.
 You can see your controlling.
 You can see your submissive.
 You can see the hundreds of different surface level of responses.
 But we don't see the why.
 So it's tough.
 We have to take a hard look at where is this coming from.
 What is in your past?
 What is fed a lot of this training and teaching?
 We're not doing this to make you a victim.
 So if you're hearing that you're hearing the wrong thing, we do it for perspective.
 We need to gain perspective where is this coming from because the sooner I can understand
 that we don't label any monsters.
 The whole phrase monsters and victims comes from one we're doing an X-level life.
 We tell somebody we're going to this process.
 We say we don't make any monsters and we don't allow you to be a victim.
 We do this to gain perspective so that we know how we can change our own decision
 and making process.
 Not go point fingers at somebody else and judge the crap out of them.
 But how we can make better decisions.
 So it's a big possibility.
 I'm going to say it's coming from your root system.
 Something has happened, something you've been trained on.
 It can be that you had a parent who held back love when they were mad at you and it told
 you that you weren't good enough.
 It could be that you had a parent that was never around.
 It could be that you had siblings that were just horrible and treated you.
 It could be all kinds of stuff, guys.
 That's one of the tough things to answer.
 But what we can answer is what you're struggling with is worth.
 Not being good enough, not being worthy enough, feeling the need to self-protect.
 So here's a question I have for you.
 How much of what you experienced every day are you taking personally?
 So just focus on today, right?
 Or take a hard look at yesterday.
 How many things that happened yesterday did you take personally?
 Things that you probably didn't need to take personally.
 How many traps were set that you just men walked right into?
 How many cycles kicked in where you're worth, cycle losing worth, self-protection, getting
 angry, whatever judging labeling, how many of those things happened just yesterday?
 How many things did you not take personal responsibility on?
 How many things did you take personal responsibility on?
 How many times did you feel like you had to be the bad person in a situation or how many times
 did you label somebody the bad person?
 Whenever you feel like you have to be the bad person, it's because you're struggling with not having
 the tools of putting in healthy boundaries, putting in healthy boundary in place.
 How many times yesterday did you attack somebody else playing the victim?
 How many times did you get defensive?
 How many times yesterday did you feel out of control?
 How many times yesterday did you feel frustrated with a situation that you were in because you
 couldn't control that situation?
 I can tell you as a high S, that is one of my highest personality styles on the disc
 personality profile, that I spent many years in my life being overly submissive, that I didn't
 have a voice that I allowed people to control the daylights out of me.
 Unfortunately, that creates a lot of victim mentality.
 I have no choice, I have no options, I have no ability and it's all lies.
 It's all lies.
 It's time to get the tools.
 I just need a God to smack me around for a couple of decades and teach me how to solve this
 stuff so that I can help other people and praise God for the last two and a half decades.
 That's what we've been doing.
 But here's one of the big things that I do to be able to battle.
 I take personal responsibility.
 I take responsibility for my actions.
 I take responsibility for the things that I do to hurt people, to send bad messages to people,
 to label people, to judge people, I take responsibility.
 I solve me so that I can help them solve themselves.
 When we are in a better place, we are able to make healthy contributions to other people.
 Think about it.
 How could we possibly do what we do here for a living if we couldn't solve these things in our
 own lives?
 If we weren't able to do these things in our own lives, so let's roll back to the description
 of the last week's episode.
 We talked about what Jesus said about why are you judging people and looking at them and calling
 them out on the soddest in their own eye when you can't even see the plank in your eye?
 Guess what happens when we can pull the plank out of our own eye?
 When we can solve that piece when we can take responsibility for ourselves, when we can get
 people around us that can teach us, when we can get tools to remove the plank, when we
 can get tools to solve these things, to solve the negative self-talk, to solve the lies that happen
 in our head, to be able to put healthy boundaries in place with people who might be toxic
 or controlling or manipulative or any of that stuff, when we can do those things, there's
 a great thing that happens.
 We can help somebody who's got soddest in their eyes.
 We can help somebody who's struggling.
 A great thing that happens is we shift from wanting to point out that people are struggling themselves
 in a negative, judgmental labeling kind of way, and it turns into compassion.
 Empathy.
 The ability to help somebody get that soddest out of their own eyes.
 One of my favorite stories is something that I have shared from the stage for many, many years.
 This is a story about the man in the well.
 There's a guy who falls into a walking along and doesn't see it falls right down into this
 well.
 While he's down there, he can't get out.
 It's too tall.
 He can't jump up.
 There's nothing for him to climb up.
 He's just stuck down in this well.
 The long comes a doctor and he yells out, "Dock, hey, I'm stuck down in this hole.
 Can you help me out?"
 And the doctor takes and writes a prescription and tosses it down the hole.
 What the heck am I going to do with this?
 Thanks, Doc.
 I didn't do anything for me.
 And a little while longer, a priest walks by.
 He goes, "Father, I'm stuck down in this hole.
 Can you help me out?"
 The priest says a blessing over him and keeps on walking.
 He's like, "Well, thanks.
 I appreciate that.
 But now what am I going to do?
 Can you just get me out?
 Can you just get a rope?
 What have been great?"
 A little while longer, a buddy walks by.
 And he goes, "Man, I'm stuck down in the hole.
 Can you help me out?"
 And his friend jumps in the hole.
 And the guy's looking at him like, "You are a dork.
 Now we're both stuck down here."
 And the friend looks back and he says, "Yeah, I know.
 But I've been down here before and I know the way out."
 That's this business, this show that you listen to, this stuff that we do, this is all based
 in that.
 This is all and us helping people get the saw dust out of their eyes because we've spent
 a lot of time getting the plank out of ours.
 So make decisions today.
 Make choices today.
 Make responsibility.
 Be self-aware, gain perspective.
 Be humble in the process.
 Have humility.
 Choose, choose, choose.
 And choose to get your butt in a place where you can get the tools to solve all of this.
 The sooner you do it, the sooner you can have phenomenal change in your life.
 Well, folks, as always, I hope you hear our hearts and what we do.
 I hope you hear our hearts and how we love to help people to overcome and have victory.
 That is the reason why we do this show, that is the reason why we do everything that we do.
 Well, hopefully this has helped you today, take this information, change your leadership,
 change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [MUSIC]