 How expressing gratitude literally, physiologically, actually helps your heart grow.
 More on that, coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life.
 And discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 Today, we are talking about not just being grateful.
 Now, everybody, we get to this time of year, and everybody starts thinking through how important
 it is to be grateful.
 And we're just like that as well.
 We talk about the importance of gratitude.
 And we're going to be talking about the importance of gratitude today.
 But we're going to talk about it from a little different aspect.
 And that is understanding what it does to you, emotionally, physically.
 Literally when we say, you know, in the bumper, we talk about how it affects your heart,
 the growth of your heart.
 We're not just talking about the, you know, the analogy of you having a heart that grows,
 the nice little, you know, cartoon picture of your heart pounding through your chest.
 We're talking about how it chemically affects your body.
 What it does to you when you express gratitude.
 Now, it is absolutely incredibly important to be grateful.
 We talk about it all the time that if you are grateful, it makes it difficult for you to be a victim.
 You can't be in a victim mentality and be grateful at the same time.
 You can't be in a negative emotional state and be grateful at the same time.
 No matter how much you try, you're not truly grateful if you're staying negative.
 And you're not naturally negative if you're staying grateful.
 Now, before we get into all this, you're like, well, that's great, Chris.
 What do I do if I'm just not finding something to be grateful about?
 Well, I'm going to tell you that the Bible says from the mouth the heart speaks.
 There's an older Abinic saying, "Speak it until your heart believes it."
 So if you're stuck in a time right now and you're finding it really difficult to be grateful, I get it.
 I understand. I've been there many times in my life.
 We've all experienced it. There's nobody who hasn't experienced that. But here's the key.
 What are you doing to get out of it? What are you doing to get out of the rut of negativity?
 What are you doing to make sure that you're not just grateful?
 We want you to be grateful. That's the first step.
 But then there's an incredibly important step, which is expressing gratitude.
 What does it look like to, and I'm not just talking about you walk around the people and say, "Hey, I'm thankful."
 Look at me! I'm grateful. I'm talking about what does it look like to act out that gratitude?
 What does it look like to show people that you're grateful? What does it look like to invite people into that experience?
 And a big piece we're going to talk about in the beginning is what does it look like to express to God your gratitude?
 So we're going to talk about all of that when we come back after this.
 Next level of life is our two-day personal discovery experience.
 It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover your root system.
 To get on stuck in life and discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace.
 Imagine this, what if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose? What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict?
 Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years, if you had clarity, purpose, and peace?
 Probably a big difference for more you stand today.
 Now I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself, "Is there more? There is?"
 And there is a better way. And it starts with the next level of life. You can go to Chrissacorda.com/discover to take the next step.
 Now if you're struggling with this contentment, regrets, or not feeling good enough, which most of you are,
 if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking, don't keep going through the same motions every single day.
 Learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace.
 Go to Chrissacorda.com/discover and take the next step.
 Folks, let's start with some words from the Bible.
 Acts 20, 35, remember that our Lord Jesus said, "More blessings come from giving than from receiving."
 Yes, Chris, I've heard that a thousand times. I know, right? No.
 Here's another way to put it. Another translation puts it this way. There is more happiness in giving than in receiving.
 Folks, I'm not telling you that my goal for the show today is not to tell you you need to go give a bunch of gifts.
 That is not it. When we get to the holiday time, I can promise you that it is not about giving gifts about buying plastic crap.
 It should never be about that.
 This is the purpose of celebration. What is the purpose of Thanksgiving, right?
 It's to be thankful and to celebrate something.
 It doesn't mean that it can't be gifts involved. That's not what I'm saying at all.
 What I'm saying is, what is your motivation? What's your intention?
 What is the thing that you're focusing on?
 When Jesus is talking about this, he's actually not saying his focus isn't.
 It is such a blessing to give a plastic toy to somebody. That's not what he's talking about, right?
 What is he expressing? It's the giving of something important, valuable, something helpful, something eternal.
 It's way more important to give than to receive.
 It's fantastic to receive. It's fun to receive.
 Right? For those of us that are believers, it is fantastic to have received salvation. When we received salvation,
 but I can promise you this, as many people as I've helped to walk through the process of receiving salvation,
 it has always been a phenomenal blessing to me to help them in that process.
 It's incredible. It's great. Praise God. Salvation is the greatest thing for me, period, right? There's nothing greater.
 That I get to spend eternity with the King of the Universe.
 It's also a phenomenal blessing to help folks discover that.
 Discover that God is somebody different than they think He is.
 And that He's always better than they've ever thought He was.
 Thank you, Christy McClull, and for that one.
 So here's what we're talking about. I want to kind of, before we go into some of the physiological effects of this,
 I want to kind of talk about how does God look at gratitude and I'm just going to share something that we just experienced.
 So many of us here at the point main group, we honor the biblical face.
 We honor the biblical festivals.
 We see that God did not take those away. There's things that He wanted us to continue to celebrate.
 Because there's a purpose behind it. Now, some are there's an element of lamentation to them,
 but a lot there is celebration.
 So let me kind of back up what we just experienced was a few weeks ago with succote or the feast of tabernacles.
 So if you think about this, when God heard the cries of His people and Egypt in bondage,
 what He did is He rescued them. He redeemed them.
 He redeemed them. He removed them from Egypt.
 A big piece that gets celebrated in the springtime is Passover.
 Passover is a time where it's we're recognizing that God gave us away by the lamb, the blood of the lamb,
 to protect our firstborn children from death, so that God was sending another plague to show the pagans that He is God.
 And not their ridiculous made up pagan God.
 That God, the King of the universe, you hope, is God.
 And so we celebrate Passover in the spring because God redeemed us, rescued us,
 and obviously that points toward the salvation through the perfect lamb Jesus Christ.
 Now, here's an interesting thing.
 At the opposite end of the Hebrew calendar, the furthest distance you can get away from it exactly halfway through the calendar.
 What you discover is succote, the feast of tabernacles.
 This is a time of celebrating the by building a, what's called a "suka", a hut, a tent, as somewhat call it, and spending time in that.
 Now, for a lot of folks that teaching is this is to celebrate the wandering in the desert, and that's not actually correct.
 That's not the big piece of what that celebration is for.
 What the celebration is for is when the children of Israel know, imagine a couple million people exiting Egypt,
 and they had to leave so rapidly that their bread could not rise, they carried it on their back.
 They traveled a distance until they got to a place called Sukhot, as you see, COT.
 And that is where they built huts out of just, out of palm branches and things that they had around them.
 This was not a great tent, this is not the tent that they lived in for the next 40 years wandering in the desert.
 Right, that was much more sophisticated.
 This is a fast, quick, putter roof over your head, here's some protection, here's some provision.
 What they had with them was also the provision of the bread that they had not eaten yet, so they get to this first place.
 They've got food, they've got shelter, there is the tradition of the cloud that protected them in this process.
 So this first night exiting Egypt, what we discover is God providing yet again.
 God making a statement, I'm going to provide for you, I'm going to take care of you.
 Keeping obedient to me, keep following, keep going, and there's so much more provision that we see.
 Right, this is the concept of Sukhot, this is the concept of the feast of tabernacles.
 And when you look at where it is placed, it does, we look at seeing it being exactly halfway through the Hebrew calendar on the other side.
 And we asked the question, well, if this was actually about the Exodus, how come it's not in a springtime?
 It's very interesting. Here's what we see.
 When you read in the Bible and it talks about this festival, is God lays this out.
 He talks about how you do this festival after the fall harvest.
 Now in Israel, there's two harvest. There's one in the springtime. There's one in the falltime, right?
 This is how we know that Jesus was not born on December 25th, is because of when they harvest stuff and when the lambs were actually in the fields.
 Look it up, it'll shock the daylights out of you.
 So here's what we see.
 That at the end of your harvest, when you've brought in your harvest, when you've crushed your grapes, when you've crushed your olives for your olive oil, when you have your wheat, when you have your barley,
 when you have all of these things that you've been blessed with, when you have all of these things and you've worked hard and you've made something of yourself and of your family and of this property that you have.
 And you have this harvest.
 God reminds them. He reminds them that the people were in captivity for 430 years.
 What we see is God going backwards and going, remember that the people were in captivity. Why? Why is this so important?
 Because an interesting thing happens with us.
 And this is so monumental to understand when it comes to gratitude.
 We are achievers. We make things happen. We get up, we go to work, we do what we do for a living.
 We make things happen, we get paid, we come home, we look at our paycheck and we go, oh look what I did.
 For a lot of people, they take that paycheck, spending on a whole bunch of stuff and crap.
 And then go, oh look, I'm worth all of this stuff. This is my worth.
 We achieve, we achieve, we achieve in life.
 And what tends to happen is that we look at our accomplishments and sometimes we get very happy with our accomplishments.
 Sometimes we look at what we have done in life and we focus on how we have provided so well for ourselves.
 The whole time we're missing out on an incredibly important concept.
 That concept is God is the one who has provided everything.
 God's the one who has allowed us to be where we are, who's allowed us the opportunities that we have,
 who's allowed us to accomplish.
 And if he's not taken it away, he's allowed you to keep it.
 So here's an incredible thing when we look at why is Sukhoat Feast of Tabernacles so far away from Passover, it's a reminder.
 It points back after you've harvested, after you've done all that you've done, after you've looked at your accomplishments and you are praising yourself and patting yourself on the back for how amazing you are.
 Remember, I brought you out of bondage. I brought you out of slavery.
 I brought you to Atlanta overflowing with milk and honey.
 I gave you the opportunities. I gave you the gifts and talents to actually have the harvest that you have.
 Now here's what I want you to do.
 Go build a hot suka, flimsy, you know, this isn't a sophisticated tent. This is a very, it's like the kind of tent that you would build it quickly and pick it up and go the next day with.
 Go build this and go spend time and it go dwell in that.
 And remember that I have provided everything that I've provided you're covering that I have tabernackled over you that I have protected you that I have provided you the food that you have that I've protected you with the cloud that keeps your enemies from seeing you.
 So when you have harvested all of this amazing stuff and you've done such a great job with the accomplishments of your hands and that's what you have done.
 Remember that I'm the one who provides that I'm the one who takes care.
 Folks, what a phenomenal. Now if you've ever, if you have not looked into the biblical face and festivals, I highly suggest that you do.
 We have built our suka and we spent time we did our dinners in it for seven days.
 We did what God has commanded us to do. We dwelt in it.
 And I can tell you my heart metaphorically and physically was blessed by the time that I spent recognizing how the king of the universe has provided for you.
 Has provided for me how the king of the universe calls me his son.
 How the king of the universe has taken care of me.
 As we sat out there as family and it was fantastic to spend time each night having dinner.
 We spent time recognizing the things that he had done for us, the things that he's doing for us, how he allows us to do what we do right now.
 The fact that you are listening to this is a blessing to us. Why?
 Because we're able to speak into your lives.
 We're able to give help to you. Why are we able to do that?
 Because he has helped us to overcome so much stuff in our lives.
 This whole business is built on worshiping him by loving people and helping people to get to a better place so they can make better decisions for themselves.
 And so much of it comes from our mistakes, my mistakes.
 You know, mistakes in difficult times in life that God has shown me and us how to overcome.
 That is something to be grateful for. Guess what?
 Plastic crap doesn't make me happy.
 Nobody's buying me toys.
 Well, that's not actually true. I had a fantastic gift from one of our clients.
 But here's the thing. It's not the thing that's the important thing.
 It's the gratitude that is so incredibly important.
 The expression from a client saying, "Hey, man, I don't have anything to express this better than this.
 This is an expression. I hope you receive this. Oh my gosh, I was humbled.
 Anytime that is always something that's just phenomenal from clients that are expressing their gratitude for the stuff that we do here.
 Right? Helping them and helping them change their lives and change their families and change their businesses and all that kind of fun stuff.
 That expression of gratitude is exactly what we should be.
 It's not the gift that's the important thing, right?
 It's the actual expression. Let me show you how much I appreciate what you've done for me.
 And for us, those of us that are believers and for those of you that are not believers, we have a lot of folks that are not believers that follow.
 I just challenge you.
 For a lot of folks, you have looked at God through the lens of man.
 Somebody in your life has jacked up so much stuff for you and you've applied that person's bad choices and decisions to God and going, man, God's just a mean hurtful God.
 And that's not truth.
 God is absolutely loving God.
 And I'm not going to tell you to follow the Western Christian belief system that says, God is only a God of love.
 That's not true.
 God is also a God who is very sure that he's going to give people every opportunity that they can to come to him, but if they don't, then that's their choice.
 They're choosing the wrath side of this.
 But folks, every single one of you that he's pulling on your heart, Paul calls it like a rope around your stomach that he keeps pulling, that he keeps pursuing your heart.
 Check it out.
 What kind of God is he?
 Is he the God that provides?
 Or is he just a mean, tyrannical God?
 Is he a God that loves what is salvation?
 If not, pure love.
 What is eternity with him?
 If not, pure love.
 So believers ask yourself a question.
 As you look towards these holidays of Thanksgiving and a day of that's claimed to be celebrating the birth of Christ and celebrating by buying people a bunch of plastic crap.
 Ask yourself the question, how are you reflecting gratitude towards God?
 How are you reflecting gratitude towards those in your life that have been a blessing, that have given, that have helped, that have been there for you,
 that have helped you walk through crap, that have helped lift you up.
 What does that gratitude look like?
 If it's only internal, if it's only internal, then I can tell you it's still a great thing for you,
 but it's not affecting you the way that it should or let me say it this way, the way that it could as when you express that gratitude.
 It will absolutely change you physically, emotionally, mentally, as you express your gratitude towards God and express your gratitude towards others.
 Even if expressing your gratitude towards others is showing them how grateful you are toward God.
 We're going to talk more about that when we come back right after this.
 Folks, if you've been listening to me for any length of time, then you know the number one issue when it comes to business, when it comes to family, when it comes to friendships, is having a lack of high quality communication.
 To make sure that you are absolutely winning in every aspect of your life, it all starts with having great communication.
 The best way to get that communication is to understand your personality style and to understand the personality style of the folks that you're spending the most time with, whether it be at work, whether it be at home.
 The best way to do that is to go to Chrissacrittle.com/store and get your personality profile and personality profiles for your team to day.
 Get it for your family members. Today, as you go through that profile, you will begin to see the greatest ways to communicate.
 Go to Chrissacrittle.com/store 2day.
 So listen to this quote from Nick Vujicch, who was born without fully formed limbs.
 So as I'm reading this and I've had the honor of meeting him, as I'm reading this, I want you to think about the problems in your life.
 I'm not saying you don't have big problems. I'm not saying you're not experiencing crap in your life right now, right?
 But I do want this to be a reality check for a lot of us, right? I want this to be perspective gathering.
 Here is a person who was born without fully formed limbs.
 Man, just go there in your mind what it's like to live life. This is a person who could be a colossal victim.
 And every time I have heard him speak, every time he has the most amazing outlook on life.
 And very godly. So here's what Nick says, often people ask me how I manage to be happy despite having no arms and no legs.
 The quick answer is that I have a choice.
 Let me say that again, I have a choice. Folks, if you believe that happiness is an emotion, you're incorrect.
 Happiness is a choice. The choice actually gets acted out in emotion.
 I can be angry about not having limbs or I can be thankful that I have a purpose. I choose gratitude.
 So I want you to compare your situation in life right now.
 I want you to compare what you're experiencing and the things that you're complaining about. Yes, I'm going to give you a good little gut punch right here, right?
 Because we need this, we need this reality check. We need this perspective gathering moment.
 What is the worst thing that's happening in your life right now? What's the worst thing?
 And does it compare to having spent a life and he's next to him? He's still going, does it compare to having a life where you're born without fully formed limbs?
 That should help you get to a place of being more grateful. Praise God.
 Thank you, Lord. Thank you that my problems are miniscule.
 And Lord, I praise you that Nick chooses gratitude.
 Right? I can only imagine the blessing that he's getting from God in this process, right?
 But what an example to all of us? You may not look at it as a blessing,
 but for him to choose gratitude.
 Create a blessing in his life. Let's take a look at what Psalm 103 says, which by the way is a Psalm of David, right?
 Not all Psalms are of David. Let my whole being bless the Lord. Let everything inside of me.
 Bless this holy name. Let my whole being bless the Lord and never forget all his good deeds.
 Now, let me kind of just set a stage for who King David was because what do we think about?
 We think about his mistakes.
 Do you recognize the amount of time that David was chased after by an army to kill him?
 Do you recognize the times that he had to hide away in caves?
 Do not get killed. Have you ever thought about the stress on this man's life from the beginning?
 This is a guy who had so much faith.
 Now, we always say that King David was a boy when he went out after a go-if.
 The Bible doesn't actually say that he was a boy.
 So it says he was a warrior man.
 You have to go look at the correct translation on this, right?
 But here's what we know. He wasn't big. This wasn't a huge guy, right?
 But he did go out there with his sling, which if you, when you, if you ever experience this in Israel, what you'll find is,
 it was like a machine gun for those guys. They were so deadly accurate.
 That's how they used those slingshots were.
 They were accurate with how they nailed things. And here's somebody who went out after a giant with a few rocks.
 And a belief and a faith in the king of the universe that he was going to be successful.
 You don't get to that faith without gratitude.
 You don't get to that place of trusting without gratitude.
 This is a man who later on was chased like crazy and so many attempts on his life.
 And God sustained him and took care of him.
 Now did he make some really bad decisions?
 Absolutely. I cannot be a person to point the finger.
 I can say he's probably done some things worse than I have, but still, I've done some pretty crappy things in my life.
 I've done some pretty stupid things in my life.
 And the great thing is every time David found forgiveness in the king of the universe.
 Here's what I want you to remember.
 And things I want you to think about and things I want you to be grateful for.
 The king of the universe, if you repent, which is, stop doing the things that are going against the things he commands you to do.
 If you stop doing that, you receive him in salvation and you focus on being obedient to him.
 He forgives you of all your sins. Everything, everything wrong you've done.
 Man will not do that. But God will. He saves you from the pit.
 These are things to be grateful for. If you choose them.
 If you choose them, then those are things that are incredibly important to be grateful for.
 So what does that leave us? Let's take a look at the difference in how we express it.
 So we're going to take a look at this, physiologically, psychologically.
 How does it change things when we express? Well, when we lament our circumstances or when we complain in essence negativity.
 When we have that negative self-talk or we actually take that negative self-talk and we just leech that out of our mouths.
 When we are doing that, that is an act of expression of the feeling of our dissatisfaction.
 So think about this for a second.
 Because you're so dissatisfied, this is the reason you're complaining.
 This is the reason you have negative talk.
 When you look at the Bible, when you especially look at the Old Testament, what we see over and over again is God's response to people's grumbling and complaining.
 We see over and over again how much God is against stop your complaining. Why? Why is it so important?
 Is it just because it doesn't want to hear it? He does not want to hear it.
 He's not too keen on hearing you complaining grumble. He wants you to be thankful. He wants you to be grateful.
 But here's what he knows. He knows where that leads you.
 It leads you into a continuing complaining and dissatisfaction in your life.
 It leads you into always looking at everything around you and complaining.
 You know these people. You may be one of them.
 If you could think in your mind right now, I know exactly who that is. All they do is complain all the time.
 Is it the person in the mirror? Right?
 We could all think of people that just can't seem to stop complaining.
 And they're constantly looking for an opportunity to complain and constantly looking for an opportunity to be a victim and constantly looking to come to you to see if you're going to affirm that they're a victim.
 We know those people.
 Here's the thing I want you to ask. How much of the time is that you?
 How much of the time are you just discontent?
 How much of the time are you dissatisfied? Folks, I'm human.
 There's many times I am discontent. There's many times I'm dissatisfied.
 But being that and expressing that are two different things.
 What we teach people all the time here is to take the tools that we teach and actually fix it.
 Overcome it. It doesn't mean that it won't come up again. It doesn't mean that you're not going to be dissatisfied and 30 minutes from now.
 But how do you handle it? What do you do about it? How do you tackle it? Do you just sit in that crap or do you pull yourself out?
 Do you tackle the negative self-talk? Do you tackle the lies in your brain? Do you tackle the dissatisfaction and the discontentment?
 And battle it with truth. Praise God of all the good things that are happening in my life.
 Look at Nick Vujicch and how he's tackling something that my gosh by all understanding.
 We would all look at that and go man. If that guy was just a colossal victim every day, you know, 365, we would totally understand.
 What is he doing? He's choosing. He's choosing gratitude.
 I have met this man and he has more gratitude than a lot of people with fully formed limbs walking around living life.
 He has a lot more gratitude than a lot of people I know. A lot of people have experienced.
 They're complaining about how horrible their life is because they didn't get a raise or, you know, their car broke down or whatever, which again, I get it.
 But when you have perspective and you ask yourself the question, is your response equal to the situation you're experiencing?
 What you will find 99.9% of the time is? No. No.
 If you find yourself seeking out people to affirm that you're a victim, then I guarantee you the thing that you're experiencing.
 99.9% of the time, your response and your choices do not align with what you're experiencing in life. It's probably just not that bad.
 Not saying it's bad. I'm saying your choices, your response is something that you should tackle.
 Research conducted by Professor Sapolowski, which I'm probably screwing this up, that Stanford Medical School, found that exposure to just 30 minutes of complaining and negativity including viewing this on TV, per day can physically damage your brain.
 Sapolski, which is probably more accurate way to say that, Sapolsky's study also revealed that exposure to complaining and negativity causes your brain to have the same emotional reaction as the experience, the same emotional reaction as that experienced one stressed.
 Think about that. So inside the limbic system of your brain is the amygdala. What happens inside of the amygdala? You set expectation.
 Your brain responds with what it expects when a certain situation comes up. So if you're the guy who goes to the gas station and the gas pump doesn't pronounce your receipt and you blow up inside of your head going,
 this stupid machine and you're just pissed off, guess what? That's your brain. You've trained your brain to respond to be pissed off.
 Right? Do you understand that? So when you look at your responses, if you just allow 30 minutes of negativity into your life per day, then when you're experiencing something, guess what your brain does?
 It says this is how I should respond in this situation. I should respond because I'm now stressed, I should respond with the same crap.
 Guess what happens when you reverse this? Guess what happens when you surround yourself with positive people?
 Guess what happens when you surround yourself with people who battle the negative self-talk and who battle the crap inside of the brain?
 You have a tendency to start responding to the negative things the way they do.
 When you surround yourself with people who are grateful, I get I had the blessing of meetings, exactly Tom Ziggler, his son is a friend of mine.
 I can't stress how much these are some of the most positive people.
 Obviously Zigg is past. But the time I got to spend was a good short, it was amazing to watch his responses to people in situations.
 He was amazing. He would talk about things, talk nicely to people or compliment people, never was it to blow sunshine up somebody's skirt.
 There heads to grow with ego and pride. He was genuinely sincere and sweet and positive.
 Never forget the story of a woman who in his book signing line was complaining. She came up to him and she's complaining about the kind of she's like, "Oh, thank you for your book and you're amazing."
 And because my company this and my company this and he said, "I'm not going to quote this exactly," but he said, "Man, did you give me an opportunity to go to work?"
 Yes, did you give your paycheck for the work you do? Yes, did you company a line to come back the next day? Yes, then you have something to be grateful for, don't you?
 Now it was more than that. He asked her more questions. But in that moment that woman was able to turn around her thinking and her expression of complaining. She's complaining to who?
 What are the most positive people of the planet? Praise God, what do you think he's going to say?
 Yeah, you should probably quit. Nope. Instead, he went after solving it and solving it with gratitude. Let's take a look at what the Bible says about not complaining.
 Flipians 2, 14, 13. Do everything without complaining or arguing so that you may become blameless and pure children of God without fault and a crooked and depraved generation?
 I am glad and rejoice with all of you. So you too should be glad and rejoice with me. Here's the thing. When you surround yourself with positive people, it changes your outlook.
 If you are feeling your brain with negativity, complaining, dissatisfaction, discontentment, social media of complaining, TV of complaining, negativity, horror.
 If you are looking at folks that are watching all these horror movies and all that crap, if these are the things that you're feeling your brain with, then that's how you're going to respond.
 By the way, just side note, the Romans actually claim that the Greeks downfall, the reason why they were able to conquer them is because of their love for entertainment. Things to think about.
 If you surround yourself with this kind of stuff, you cannot be surprised that your outlook on life is negative. If you surround yourself with positivity, the new won't be surprised that your outlook on life is positive.
 Here's the great thing, as you continue to express gratitude, as your mind changes, as your heart change, your emotions change, as all these things change, then you get to help other people to do the same.
 In our logo, if you've never looked at our logo, there is a Shepard's Crook and there is an arrow. We've talked about this before, but the Shepard's Crook, a point main is a Greek word in the Bible that is a type of shepherd that loves his flock, heals his flock, feeds his flock, guides his flock, would leave the 99 to get the one.
 That's the type of shepherd that is the name of our company, the point main group. We are a group of Shepards that are doing what we can to love the flock as much as we can.
 The Shepard's Crook, a lot of people don't know this, but in Israel, it's very hilly. Wherever there's a flat space, that's where they plant stuff, right? If they can grow stuff, then they grow it.
 As much as they can, which means that for the Shepards, they're constantly having to take the sheep over hilly areas to try and get them to food and water. What happens with the young is many times they can't climb the bigger rocks.
 So the Shepard will get up top, reach down with that Shepard's Crook, go around the neck. I know all of you folks that think this is horrible, and lift up the sheep, the lamb to get it to safety, food and water provision.
 Pick up the next one you can't get there. Here's what I want you to think about. For us, he brewed's called Mishpot and Settaka, just a synrighteousness.
 This is what he does in the Middle East. Just as in the Middle East is considered lifting people up. Those who don't have a way up. When you change your negative outlook to a positive outlook, when you change your complaining to gratitude, when you change your dissatisfaction to satisfaction and amazing
 God pattern happens in your life. You're able to lift others up. You're able to help others get out of their dissatisfaction. You're able to help others get out of their discontentment.
 I'm not saying you're going to help everybody. Misery loves company and some folks just want to live in their in their crap, but you'll be amazed at how many people want to be around you because you're helping them to live a positive life.
 Folks, when you change from just being grateful or from being discontent to being grateful to expressing gratitude, it changes your whole life.
 It physically changes your body removes a lot of junk and sickness and crap that does end up inside of you. We talked about that on another episode about the Japanese scientists who did all kinds of tests on water.
 When he exposed negativity to the water, when he exposed positivity to the water, what he saw, when he froze it, is the crystals with the positivity were dropped at gorgeous amazing and beautiful.
 The ones with the negativity were disgusting, not great forms, no great function and they just looked terrible. You were made up of and I missed quoted. I said 70% but we have discovered that it's 60% that your body is about 60% water.
 Those things are happening to you. When you change the way you are grateful and get out of negativity, dissatisfaction, all of that, it changes your whole physiological structure.
 It also changes your mind, it changes how you think it changes your emotions and eventually what happens is you get to help other people change themselves.
 There is no greater blessing. Let me tell you, it's great getting into a positive place and busting your butt, but it's really a blessing to help other people get to a positive place as well.
 When we look at all this, who do we have to think? We have God to thank for everything. The good times, the hard times.
 You've heard me say, "Over and over again, God uses stress and suffering to grow us. I have grown a lot in my life. I've had plenty of crap happening in my life. Why do I do this show? Why do we do the things that we do here? Because I'm grateful.
 Because I have gratitude because I love my father. I love the King of the universe. I love my Savior. I love what they have done for me and what they have allowed for me.
 I'm grateful for the grace of God for us.
 You know exactly where you are. He knows exactly what you're going through. He knows exactly what you're struggling with. Guess what? He may have caused some of those things.
 You know exactly what you're struggling with. You know exactly what you're struggling with.
 If you take it as only negative, that is the only direction you're going to go. If you recognize that your father and heaven has a purpose and a plan for you and he's walking you through it, as faster or slow as you will go, then you will actually choose gratitude.
 When you choose gratitude, here's just some things that come from it according to a greater good science center article, which is called the science of gratitude in 2018.
 Here's what you get. Increased happiness and positive mood. More satisfaction with life. Less materialistic.
 Quit getting worth and buying crap that you don't need. And by the way, give away a bunch of the crap that you have that you don't need or use, so somebody else can be blessed with it.
 Less likely to experience burnout. Better physical health. Better sleep. Less fatigue. Lower levels of cellular inflammation.
 The biggest issue that we are seeing in people's bodies two day. Cellular inflammation is wreaking havoc with disease. All kinds of crap by far. Biggest.
 So guess what? Choose gratitude. Less inflammation. Amazing. Also get rid of the sugar in the crap.
 Greater resilience. See and it encourages the development of patients, humility and wisdom. Yes. Here's some amazing thing. Choose gratitude.
 Get smarter. What's the converse? Choose negativity. Let me just say you don't get smarter. Folks, that's the way we're meant to live. That's the way God wants us to live.
 We all know it. We all know that we admire those people who choose positivity in life. Here's what I want you to know today.
 Don't worry about tomorrow. Don't worry about next week. Today. Today. Today. Today. Choose gratitude.
 Let me say it this way. Today. Choose and express gratitude.
 Folks. You know people who need to hear this. Get this out to them. Share this. Share this episode for those folks that are not being grateful or those that are.
 You know people that need to hear this. Help them to choose today.
 You know people who need to hear this. You know people who need to hear this.
 You know what we do here. Next level of life. Get your button. It makes it happen. As always, take this information. Change your leadership. Change your business. Change your life.
 And join us on the next episode.
 (dramatic music)