 Finishing well when your strength is gone. That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks. Today we're going to play a game. We're going to play the game.
 Would you rather now before you go to some crazy bad places in your head this is going to be
 this is a family show. So we're going to, would you rather have short-term success and long-term
 failure or would you rather have long-term success in short-term failure? Now think about that
 answer carefully. We'll duckress when you put it that way. It's easy to choose. Sure, I'll go ahead
 and endure some early short-term failures in my career to, in order to eventually be successful in
 the long-term. Now here's the game though. That's a lot easier said than done and here's why.
 A lot of business owners. A lot of business owners love to start something new.
 But when things get difficult, when times get tough, when they're nearing the end of the project,
 they can feel like their strength is starting to weigh. Now I'm just talking about projects.
 I'm just talking about new things. Let's take a look at 2020. How many of you have already checked out?
 How many of you are like, "I need the calendar to switch because at that point things will get
 better." Well, you already know the answer to that. That's an incorrect statement. That's not truth, right?
 So we can't just end this season waiting for the calendar to change and doing one of the worst
 things we can possibly do, which is being reactive to what 2021 sends our way.
 That is absolutely the worst idea for any leader or any business owner to do. We're going to talk a
 lot more about this about not just surviving, but thriving under pressure.
 There you go. When we come back right after this.
 Hey, Joe Fortner here. I'm the Vice President of Leadership Development on Chris's team.
 And I oversee our next sub-amastromind program. Next sub-amastromind lays out a clear path to success
 for you and your business. It shows you how to make the right decisions, solve complex problems, and
 lead more effectively. This is why collectively our clients saw on average a 46% increase in net profit
 over the last 12 months. I know business is tough, and we build a system around you and give you
 the tools to help you win. To learn more, visit us at Chrisacordo.com/mastermind again
 at his Chrisacordo.com/mastermind.
 We are back and we are talking about persevering. We're talking about finishing the year
 and everything you do, strong with excellence, with excitement, with enthusiasm,
 all of those things finishing this year, strong. And as I go through this, guys,
 here's what I want you to think about. I'm not talking about the rest of this month. I'm not talking
 about the rest of 2020. What I'm speaking to is that if any time you pull out of the process of
 finishing something, whenever you back off, then what you're doing is you're allowing
 whatever's going on to finish your project, your year, whatever. You're literally giving over
 your abilities, your strength, your authority to whatever's going to happen. And this is not been
 for a lot of folks. This has happened the best year. I get it. I understand. In many aspects,
 this has been a phenomenal year for me and some suck. But really, I'm praising God like crazy.
 I'm loving that he is my hope and not 2020, right? So when we back off of finishing something well
 in the hopes that once it's done, we'll move on to something else, then guess what? We create this DNA
 inside of ourselves that we don't work through the setbacks, that we don't work through the struggles,
 that we don't persevere. So here's what I know. If you don't persevere, you'll never succeed. It's
 really not an option. Life is full of mistakes, of misfortunes, of misery, of all kinds of crap. You're
 going to experience it, right? You're going to have all kinds of things that you have the opportunity
 to give up on. Yes, Chris, I'm going to adult. I've listened to this show. I own a business. I'm a leader of
 a team. I'm a mom, I'm a dad, I'm a whatever. I understand the concept. Yeah. Okay. Then let's take a
 look at why so many times we actually back off of finishing well. We back off of finishing strong, right?
 So we're going to look at some people in history and how they dealt with setbacks, how they dealt with
 obstacles, how they dealt with failure. So we can learn from their mistakes or, you know,
 and in fact, it may not actually be mistakes and may just be trial and error of getting through something
 well, right? We've created a culture here where it's okay to make mistakes. It's okay to fail.
 Our goal is what do we learn from it? When you look at this whole business and everything that we do,
 it comes from a whole lot of my mistakes in life and learning how to overcome them. It's funny to
 me whenever we have somebody new who listens and then when I talk about a mistake they're like, oh good,
 you make mistakes too and it's like, are you kidding? This whole business is built on that.
 Not the mistake itself, but overcoming, learning how to overcome, finishing strong, going on to the next
 thing and having the ability to persevere through something even bigger, something stronger, because we
 continue to practice this life, right? We continue to practice finishing strong, getting through things,
 using our strength instead of backing away, right? And helping other people to do that. So let's take
 a look at a few people in history that help us with this phenomenon. Let's take a look at Tom Settison.
 His teacher said that he was too stupid to learn anything. He was fired from his first two jobs
 for being non-productive as an inventor. Edison made 1000 unsuccessful attempts at inventing the
 light bulb. Tom Settison said himself, the light bulb was an invention with 1000 steps. Now,
 we look at that and we've all heard that about Edison, we've all heard that example and we all looked at
 him. Oh, isn't that great? He didn't fail. He found a thousand different ways or 99 different ways,
 not to make a light bulb, right? And then we screw up once and how do we respond? We make a mistake once
 or something difficult happens and we're like, well, I'm done. We have every day of 2020,
 if every day was a bad day, we're still under a thousand days, right? So if every day has a failure to it,
 what should we do? Do we just back out? Do we just stop? Do we just stop doing? Do we look at it and
 say, I'm done? I can't handle it anymore? Or do we find another way today to try and turn this year around
 or this project around or whatever the thing is that you're experiencing if it's your marriage?
 If it's your marriage, well, I've tried, I've tried a hundred times. Well, I've tried a thousand times.
 If it's raising kids, well, I've tried a hundred times. Have you tried a thousand times?
 If it's trying to make your business successful by changing the way you do things in this current
 environment, well, Chris, I did a hundred different things. Okay, try a thousand. Go. I'll never
 forget, when I first started writing a long time ago, when I first started writing and I had put out
 a blog to see if I could write halfway decent and I was going and going and really not saying
 a lot of traction. Now the goal wasn't for me to see numbers of people grow. The goal was for me to see
 is the writing and ain't good. This was like I say, this was quite a while ago. And I was about to give up.
 I mean, I was just like, man, I just don't know if this is my deal. I don't know if this is my thing.
 You know, I've been teaching people for a very long time, but writing a blog just wasn't,
 you know, I enjoyed it, but if it didn't have an impact on people, then I didn't want to be
 doing. I didn't want to be wasted my time there at finding other place. And I reached out to
 my diet and I'm like, Mike, help me, brother, what this is, this is where I am what you think. And Mike
 pressed and on me and he said, Chris, do not give up. You're almost there. The stuff you're putting
 out is is really good. Just keep going. Don't stop too many people stop right before they become successful.
 And that just pecked me up and I'm like, okay, I'm going to keep going and see what happens. It is
 almost that it's like those words were prophetic, right? And really what Mike had seen is that when people
 continue to push in that world and that writing world, if you keep going, then eventually those
 that will stick with it, it clicks. It kicks in. It starts moving against momentum. It gets success.
 And it was, I mean, it was like, almost, I don't know exactly how fast it was, but it was like a week
 or two after that all of a sudden, I started seeing big movements. I started seeing things happen in
 things shake. And so at a time when I was like, and it wasn't that I was wanting to quit because
 I wanted to quit. My concern was am I being effective? Am I helping other people? If not,
 then I don't want to poor time into this, rock imported into something else and help them be successful there,
 right? But the more I stuck to it and finished well, the great thing is, I haven't finished yet.
 We've been doing this for a long, long time now and being successful at it and helping people in that
 was the goal. So let's take a look at Abraham Lincoln, his resume at the time of his election,
 two the president of the United States might have looked like a long track record of failures. A lot of
 people aren't surprised by this. He had lots of setbacks. He had lots of rejections. He even had nervous
 breakdowns. But what if he had accepted any number of the defeats along the way? What would have happened?
 He obviously would not have been president, right? Now if you're looking at Lincoln's timeline,
 there's he changed beliefs towards the end of his presidency and we see some amazing things
 that came out of him because of it. Right? We see some amazing choices and some amazing decisions
 that came from his presidency that affected a lot of human lives. What if he would have given up?
 What would it look like today? Let's take a look at Walt Disney. Walt Disney was fired from his
 first job at the Kansas City Star after his newspaper editor told him that he didn't have enough
 imagination or creativity. Think about this first. If you've ever looked at any of the information,
 the documentaries or anything on Walt Disney, it's just hilarious. It's like, who's that guy?
 How many times did that guy kick himself on the butt? And really Walt needed that, right?
 So that guy can't really be too upset with himself. But how many times did he kick himself on the
 butt going? Ha, maybe I didn't give Walt enough of a chance. So praise God, Walt Disney went on to,
 I don't know, I've never looked up the Kansas City Star. I don't know if it's still actually in
 circulation. But what would the Kansas City Star have been if they didn't give up on Walt Disney?
 Think about this. What could it have been, right? And look at the phenomenal imagination
 of Walt Disney. And again, there's a lot of personality style that ends up in this as well, right? Who
 they became after their failures? And it's not just a one, you know, one and done, they failed once,
 and none all of a sudden they became a huge success. What we're seeing is, and Walt Disney had plenty
 of failures, right? There's plenty of things that he had to work through and plenty of struggles.
 If you've not seen the movie, saving Mr. Banks, go watch that. It's just fantastic to
 see, you know, what things that he struggled through and worked through and pushed to success. And
 and here's why I love that movie so much is because you're watching the experience of somebody who has
 faced failure. Wow, this is now becoming a promotion for the movie, saving Mr. Banks. You're
 seeing the person who has faced failure a thousand times and has learned how to overcome it. And I think
 Tom Hanks did a phenomenal job in the movie of expressing Disney's struggle, Disney's
 wearingess of trying to make this one thing happen and trying to help somebody who was struggling
 themselves to be able to create something that was as fantastic as Mary Poppins. You may not think so.
 That's okay. You could be wrong. It was a fantastic movie, but it's just a powerful piece of
 information to look at and see how did he struggle through this? What did he do to get to success?
 So folks, that's what we're talking about. We're talking about what does it look like to not give up
 to endure, to persevere, to become successful because of the endurance. Not because success just falls
 in place and it just doesn't become an automatic situation, right? So let's look at it in a kind of
 a different light. Let's take a look at what if the problem is being wary. Maybe this season has created
 some awareness in your life. Maybe this season, maybe this year, maybe you've had a series of setbacks,
 maybe you've had a series of obstacles. I think every single one of us has a leader, every business owner.
 I think we all experienced it to some level. There are some out there that didn't, they didn't skip
 a beat. I'm going to immediately win Corona Happen and all this crap, their businesses took off.
 And a lot of those businesses were the ones that I say, people were sitting at home looking at their
 house because they weren't going to work on. We have wanted to paint this place for 100 years. So let's get
 this thing painted, boom, painters are in business. They're doing a better job. But there's a lot of
 folks that dealt with still the weariness of dealing with choices that were beyond them.
 Right, decisions that were beyond them. We did not choose to shut down our businesses. We did not
 choose to have all this stuff effect us. So interestingly, you may have dealt with a lot of
 weariness from the setbacks that has been 2020. For a lot of you, a lot of obstacles were put in place.
 We, you know, I've got one client that a whole industry was shut down that he made parts for.
 And so that aspect of his business overnight was shut down. Now, praise God, God sent him a different
 area that he could fulfill. And he started rocking again. But for a lot of folks for us, we took a
 kick in the teeth. We weren't able to do our live spring event. But we are doing it this upcoming year.
 And we're excited about that. We weren't able to do that. And so that effect that a lot around here.
 We had to take some folks that were that spent a lot of their time working on events and shift them
 into different areas. We had some obstacles. We had some some failures. Did we have failures? I'm sure
 we had some failures. I don't think we've, we haven't really even focused on this year. Did we have
 obstacles? Oh, I can tell you that in the heartbeat. We definitely had obstacles. But what did we do with them?
 Right? We got around them. Here's the key. Just because you've had obstacles just because you've had
 failures, whether it's in your business, whether it's in your team, whether it's in your leadership, whether it's
 in your parenting, whether it's in your marriage, no matter what it's in. One thing that you will
 want to understand is, it doesn't make you the failure. Is it used to say, and I'm probably
 going to screw this up, but failure is not a person. It's a situation. You're not a failure.
 Unless you continue to choose failing. Right? It's what we do with it. That matters.
 Author Rubber McKee says true character is revealed in the choices a human being makes under pressure.
 The greater the pressure, the deeper the revelation, the true or the choice,
 to the characters essential nature. So folks, here's what Robert's saying.
 Under pressure, your true character comes up. Who you truly are is revealed during that time.
 I can tell you I have had moments under pressure where I have not liked the person that was revealed
 and had to go to work on that and change that. I have seen lots of folks under pressure are not the
 person that I thought they were. So ask yourself this question right now. What do you look like when you're
 under pressure? What does your character reveal when you are under pressure? We teach a lot here about what
 we call the root system. Now, I'm going to talk about this if you've never listened to the episode
 while your life is like wine, go back and listen to that. We'll put that in the show notes as well.
 Powerful piece for you to listen to. But let me kind of talk about what happens to great
 finds and why this is something that we use to help people to kind of understand stress, failure,
 obstacles, all that kind of stuff and what it happens to you. Now, there is a, I cannot off the top of my
 red head. Remember the guy's name, but there is a wine maker in burgundy who says, if you give wine
 grapes, all the sun, it wants, all the water, it wants, it becomes a lazy couch potato.
 If you give the grape everything it wants, it becomes a lazy couch potato. Think of people in your life
 who live like lazy couch potatoes. Right? If their life is taking care of them, why do we find so
 many entitled young people in this world today that are losing their minds when they don't get their way? Why?
 What do we see in the parenting? They've been given everything. They don't have responsibilities. They don't
 have to take care of themselves. They don't have to work. Their food is provided for them. Their rooms are
 taking care of their boundaries. They don't learn squat. So when they go out into the world and the world,
 no longer is providing for them what happens. They lose their mind. They literally do this concept of a
 quarter-life crisis. There's many people my age that are like, that's just stupid that can't possibly
 be true. Yes, it is true. Why? Because they've been taught that the world is going to take care of them.
 And when the world doesn't take care of them, they freak out. Think about it. Why does somebody
 believe that they are entitled to anything? Because people in the world is taught them. And when I say
 the world, I mean people have taught them that they are entitled, that they don't have to take
 responsibility. That they don't have to work their butts off. I've been working since I was 14 years old.
 Man, I was working in the house before that. We were to have a conversation the other day of how my mom taught
 my brother and I. It was just the three of us. And she taught us how to cook and how to clean.
 How to sew. Yes, I know how to sew because at 10 years old or it might have even actually been
 about eight years old. I think I was probably more like eight years old. My mom was teaching us skills,
 life skills. When 14 rolled around and I got a job washing dishes in the best restaurant ever.
 It's no longer an existence, but it was called the Hickory House. Now the Hickory House.
 Anyways, phenomenal place back in trucky. That's no longer there. But I'm washing dishes at 14
 years old learning. Making money, you know, understanding the importance of the value of a dollar,
 understanding what I can do with it. My mom used to take her old checkbooks and teach us how to handle
 our finances. What I was, gosh, I remember I think I was 10 years old. I opened up a CD.
 Back of those days, it was at nine, nine and a quarter percent. My mom sent me into the bank.
 And she goes, because I had made like a hundred bucks doing something. I don't remember what I was doing.
 But I'd saved up a hundred dollars. And she's like, son, go in there and open up a savings account.
 It's what she said. And she said, I'm like, are you coming in? She's like, nope, stay in
 10 years old. She sat in the car and sent me in. I wanted to the bank. I came out and she
 goes, well, let me see your account. I said, well, I didn't get a savings account. I got a CD.
 She goes, you got a whole CD. I said, yeah, she goes, what's it making? I said, well, she said,
 it was nine and a quarter percent. I didn't even, it sounded like a smarter deal because the savings account
 wasn't paying anywhere near that. And my mom just sat there. She's like, oh my gosh. I'm like, well,
 it, it seems smarter. I just got a tie up my hundred bucks for six months. And I get nine and a quarter
 percent. And that's because I had somebody teaching me to make smart decisions.
 Right. So here's the thing, when you actually allow people or children parents, when you let your
 your kids experience stress and show them away out of it. Leaders, when you allow your team
 members to experience failure and you show them away out of it, business owners, when you allow your
 leaders to experience failure and show them the way out of it, they become a different person.
 Their character grows. Their character grows. So that when difficult times come,
 the growth in their character is revealed. Why is this business here? We talk about this over and
 over again, right? Because I've been through failures. I've been through struggles. I've made stupid
 mistakes and I've learned how to overcome them. And I find incredible joy in blessing and helping other
 people do the same thing. So guys, do not look to be saved from your situation. I remember I used to
 pray to God, please get me out of this as fast as you can. Until God revealed to me, count it joyson
 because the longer you make it through this trial, this struggle, this situation, the longer you'll be
 able to stand when it comes to the next bigger one that I'm gonna send your way because I'm going to
 grow you. I'm gonna make you more like Lord Jesus. I'm gonna grow you in this stuff. I'm gonna grow
 you closer to me. So the longer you make it through this, the longer you can stand on the next thing
 that comes through. These are the things that these are the tools that we teach people and help people with.
 So guess what? When struggles come my way nowadays, I get through them considerably faster than I ever have.
 I don't pray for God to remove the pain and the struggle. Instead, I pray help me, as long as you want me
 here, keep me here, but help me to learn what it is you want me to learn as fast as I can. Because the sooner I
 learn it, the sooner I grow and then that you'll hopefully take off the pressure of the situation.
 But the great thing is that I came out with learning. I came up with growth, my character grew. So
 what does all of that have to do with grapes? Well, as I shared before, if you give grapes all the
 water and all the sun they want, they will become lazy catch potatoes. A great wine grower. Now, to be a great
 wine maker, you have to have a great wine grower that's either you or somebody else.
 Because to make great wine, you have to have a phenomenal grape. Well, yeah, obviously, Chris, no,
 you have to understand. There are people that will take phenomenal risks to stress the crap out of the grape.
 Because here's what happens. So as I'm talking through this, I want you to think about your life,
 apply this to you. So there are things that they will do to make a grape stress.
 One of the things, one of the first things, and we talk about again, route system is one of the
 major pieces of the major pieces of next-level life. It's the foundation that this isn't it, but it's,
 you kind of get an idea. When you do not water a grapevine. So the water table that is in the ground
 is at a specific place wherever that is. You plant those grapefines and in burgundy, it's actually
 illegal. You cannot water your grapes because you might screw up the whole region's reputation
 because you're putting out crap, right? So what happens is those grapes have to fight to get that water.
 So those routes are fighting to go deeper and deeper and deeper in the soil to get to wherever the water
 is. Here's a great thing that happens. If you've ever looked at a cutaway from soil,
 where they just cut straight down and then pull on that stuff away and you look at a side shot of the
 soil, what you will find is there is a lot of different layers of minerals. Considerably different layers,
 different types, different things, and all of the differences in those minerals add more complexity
 to the grape. So what happens is, as the route is pulling in water, it's also pulling in those minerals.
 And those minerals affect the flavor, it affects the smell, it affects the complexity, the nuance
 of what that grape expresses because of all of the added minerals that ends up inside of that grape.
 Now here's a deal. The further it goes, more complexity that comes from the soil, right? So that's
 one piece. As the grape doesn't get water, it stresses the grape itself. So the grape itself, because of
 the stress, creates a more concentrated grape. The more water, the less concentrated. So if you've ever seen,
 if you've ever opened up a lemon or an orange that had a super thick rhyme, like you cracked it open,
 I don't know if you crack open or you ripped it open, whatever you cut it open, and the rhyme is super thick.
 Guess what? That is a citrus that did not get a lot of water. It was protecting itself
 by creating a much thicker rhyme, right? If you see that thick rhyme, that's the effects of not having
 enough water. Well, on a grape, it's the way if it gets water, then it becomes watered down.
 So what happens to the grape? It doesn't, grape, it doesn't grow a thick skin to protect it. Instead,
 it concentrates what it is getting. It becomes concentrated. So the more stress by not having water,
 the more concentration on the grape, the less number of grapes it will grow. So if you give it a ton of
 water, like in 2011, there was so much rain in Napa that the tonnage that came off of an acre
 was so much greater, but if you go back to 2011 wines, you will find, man, or they watered down wines.
 They are not that good. There's a few places that change that and we'll talk a little bit about that.
 But when you experience that stress, you become more concentrated. You become more complex.
 You become a greater grape, a greater version of yourself. So that's one thing. So sunshine is another piece,
 right? So as you see a grapevine, it actually creates this large canopy so that it can cover itself up
 and not get too much sun. Well, a great grape grower will actually pull back, now most all of them
 cut their canopies, to allow more sun to come in because the more sun causes more stress, causes more concentration,
 causes more complexity, all of those things make the grape even better. Another thing that happens is,
 and this is why you will find on a greater wine, a much higher price if it's a great wine.
 A lot of, not a lot, actually, but a percentage of wine growers understand the concept that less
 grapes means more concentration. So there's what's called dropping fruit, where a wine grower will
 go through and every three bunches of fruit, it will cut one off and drop it to the ground. Now they're not
 matured here. This is early phases, otherwise it wouldn't make any sense. And they drop it to the ground
 and allow it to become mulch. But what happens is, is those two bunches that are left over now get 50%
 more concentration because it's not having to, the vine's not having to split it between three
 bunches. It's being able to put it everything that it has in two, two bunches. That makes the cluster even more
 concentrated even better. So at the end of all of the stress, all of this, you might be sitting there
 going, "Man, that just sounds painful to the grape." Well, if you've ever had a phenomenal bottle of wine,
 you can understand how great it is because of all the stress that it's gone through. Now, as I've
 explained, all of that, take a look at you. Take a look at the person in the mirror. Take a look at the
 stress that you've been through. Take a look at the obstacles that you've had to overcome. Take a look at the
 pain. What are you producing from all of that stuff that you've been through? If you were looking at
 2020 and you have not produced a better version of you, if your business isn't better because of what you've
 experienced, if your leadership isn't better because of what you've experienced, if your team isn't
 better because of what you've experienced, if your marriage isn't better, your kids aren't better,
 your family life, your gratitude, your everything isn't better because of what you've experienced,
 ask yourself the question, "Why? Why is it not changed? Why's it not different? Why's it not better?
 Is it because instead of choosing to allow the stress to make you a better version of you,
 you've allowed the stress to knock you back, make you weary, allow you to back off a little bit,
 take your foot off the pedal, if so, then you're probably pretty much ready to give up on 2020.
 You're probably done with this year. Folks, here's what I want you to understand just because it's a calendar
 here doesn't mean that 2021 is going to be better. It doesn't mean that it's all of a sudden
 you're holding a whole life. What you're doing today is setting up tomorrow. How you're focusing on today
 is setting up tomorrow. How you're choosing to grow today is setting up tomorrow.
 And the next day and the next day, next month and next year.
 So the key is how are you going to persevere through this? What are you going to do today? How are you going to choose to face the rest of this year?
 How are you going to choose to finish this year? We're going to talk more about that when we come back right after this.
 Next level, life is our two-day personal discovery experience. It's a one-on-one
 personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover your root system,
 to get unstuck in life, and to discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace.
 Imagine this. What if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose? What would it look like to have
 healthier relationships with less conflict? Where would you be in a few months, a year, five years?
 If you had clarity, purpose, and peace. Probably a big difference for more you stand today. Now,
 I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself, is there more? There is.
 And there is a better way. And it starts with the next level life. You can go to crissacrata.com/discover
 to take the next step. Now, if you're struggling with this contentment, regrets, or not feeling good enough,
 which most of you are, if you're filled with anxiety or your relationships are lacking,
 don't keep going through the same motions every single day. Learn how to move past the things
 robbing you of peace. Go to crissacrata.com/discover and take the next step.
 We are back and we are talking about finishing well. When you're strengthened,
 you're even when you're, even when you're strengthened isn't gone, but you're weary, maybe you've
 struggled, maybe you just want to get out of the the cred that you're experiencing. And we've
 talked to a lot of stuff, a lot of how to look at things and how to approach stress in your life,
 and what it looks like for you to persevere and grow. And we're going to go a little bit deeper.
 We're going to take an even deeper author, Stephen Lawhead writes, "The destination was important
 to be sure, but it was the journey itself, the physical act of going that transformed the pilgrims.
 For if there was to be any transformation in the spiritual orientation of the pilgrims' soul,
 that change would take place not on arrival as if by magic, but in the long hard work of the way."
 Eugene Peterson wrote, "The essential thing in heaven and earth is that there should be a long
 obedience in the same direction, there thereby results, and has always resulted in the long run,
 something which has made life worth living." Folks, I will tell you, the long hard work of
 transformation is exactly that. Long hard work, but I can promise you it is full of joy.
 I can promise you it is full of good results. I can promise you being obedient in the same direction
 is going to result in better character, greater joy, greater results.
 So for me, one of the things that for years I talked with my team about,
 there have been a few times in my life, a handful of times in my life where I felt like God was
 speaking something that was coming. I didn't know what it was, I just knew that something was going to happen.
 In three years I told my team, "Guys, I believe that eventually I'm going to stand God's
 going to come and stand for an even stronger message." I don't know exactly what that is. I don't know what that
 looks like, but I believe it's coming. I don't know. And so for years, I would say that this is
 happened to me probably seven or eight times in my life where I know something's coming. I just
 don't know what it is. And I don't know the exact details. I know enough to know that it's a stronger
 stance. And when we went to my leadership team and I went to Israel and we experienced
 seeing the holy land, but seeing things through that Middle Eastern lens,
 it changed our world. When we discovered and folks, I want to give you a suggestion here that you're
 probably not ready for, but I hope you are. Read the book, "Pagan Christianity." By George
 Barna and Frank Fiala, we'll put that in the notes. Read this book, but here's what I can tell you,
 many of you are not ready. There's a whole bunch of lies in paganism that's been brought into our belief
 system. And if you don't know why that's important, go read the Old Testament, go read the new
 Testament, read the whole thing and find out, answer this one question, "How does God feel about
 paganism?" And I will promise you. And you can send me every email you would like to disagree
 at podcast@crystallicarda.com, but here's what I want you to do.
 "Scriptually prove to yourself how God feels about paganism and how He feels about it,
 being brought into worship with Him." Go discover that. I'm just sum it up for you. He absolutely
 hates it. It's an abomination to Him. He hates paganism. What does paganism? We're shipping other gods,
 idolatry, all of that. So what we don't realize is that for the last 1700 years, we've had a whole
 lot of paganism brought into our belief system. Guess what? It happened before that. It happened before
 Jesus was walking on the earth. There was paganism brought into the Jewish belief system. So these are
 important things for us to understand. So after we came back from Israel, that was a big,
 eye opener for us to go, "Oh my gosh, we've been doing things that God doesn't like. We've been
 honoring paganism in ways that God doesn't like." And He doesn't want us to do. And so what God
 called us, I will speak for myself, but He called us to do, He called me to do is to be more obedient.
 You see, a loving parent, a loving father, wants their child to be obedient to the things that are right,
 the things that they command, the things that they teach. And God showed us, there's a lot of things
 we weren't doing that He wanted us to do. And there's a lot of obedience that He wants us to have. That
 I thought was going to be incredibly difficult. So one of those things, rounds looking, and by the way,
 being able to clear, I went through and proved all of this. And if you don't know much about me,
 I'm a voracious studyer of God's word. So I spend a lot of time in it. And I went through and went
 back and ripped out the doctrine and theology that I came out of and started going through it and looking
 at it through the lens of God, not man-made doctrine, and started discovering the things that we had messed up.
 And as I walked this path, the struggles I had in my brain is, what is this going to do? What's
 going to happen here? Now here's what I knew, no matter what, I'm moving in the direction of
 greater obedience to my father because that's what he asked of me. What does Jesus say? I'm being
 obedient to my father's will. What does he tell us to do? Be obedient to our father's will to his commands.
 Look up Matthew 5 17th and 19. Look up Matthew 7. Take a look at what God himself is saying that
 we are supposed to do, right? So I thought to myself, man, this is going to be tough. I might lose friends,
 I might lose clients, I might lose followers, I might lose a whole bunch of people, but I don't care
 because I'm not losing God. And I'm going to do what he tells me to do and I'm going to follow this.
 And I want to be stronger in my obedience to him. And you know what, life might suck, but who cares?
 He's the king of the universe and I'm going to do this. Folks, I cannot stress how much more joy,
 how much more blessing has come from when we decided to be more obedient to God and less focused on
 us as individuals and way less focused on the world and what the world wants and what the world
 brings. The more that we have become focused on him, what he asks of us, what he wants from us,
 it has changed our lives. We have seen blessings from relationships being restored. We have seen
 blessings from people growing in their relationships with God. We have seen so many things. Friends,
 family, clients, followers, everything. It has been almost undescribable how much we have seen
 from our choice to stand a stronger stance with God Almighty. So here's, here's why I'm sharing
 all of this with you. I made a decision I am going to persevere through this, no matter what happens,
 here on earth. I am going to persevere if everybody hates me and doesn't like me and tells me I'm wrong
 and all that kind of stuff which I don't care because I care about what God says. I will persevere
 through this. I am not going to live for the opinion of man. I'm going to live for the opinion of
 God Almighty. He is my father. He is the one who holds my eternity in his hands. He's the one I
 am to obey. I don't care what man wants to get for himself. I can promise you it was nowhere near
 his tough as I thought it would be and it has been amazingly more blessed than I could have imagined.
 So if we look at Matthew 714, but the gateway to life is very narrow and the road is difficult
 and only a few ever find it. Folks, there are things in your life that your father and heaven is asking
 you to do. There are things he's asking you to persevere through. There are things he's asking you to
 keep standing for. Believers, listen to me if you call yourself a Christian, understand this,
 you're seeing a lot of stuff in this world that's demanding that we cave to it. Make a choice.
 Are you standing for the world or are you standing for God? You're going to have to do this, right?
 At some point you're going to have to do this. Make a choice now. But understand that you can persevere.
 You can persevere through COVID. You can persevere through government making decisions that you don't
 like. You can persevere from people who are judgmental and treating you like crap.
 You can persevere through difficult times and struggles. James 1 says it this. Says it this way.
 Consider it nothing but join my brothers and sisters. Whenever you fall into various trials
 be assured that the testing of your faith through experience produces endurance,
 leading to spiritual maturity and inner peace and let endurance have its perfect result,
 which is perfecting you and do a thorough work so that you may be perfect and completely developed
 in your faith lacking in nothing. So folks, whatever the situation is, whether it is you want to get
 through 2020, guess what 2021 may not be better. Whether it's a struggle you're having in your marriage,
 whether it's a struggle you're having in your parenting, whether it's a struggle you're having
 with a team member, whether it's a struggle that you're having with vices that you have,
 maybe it's pornography, maybe it's alcoholism, maybe it's control and anger, maybe it's submissiveness,
 maybe it's procrastination, persevere, persevere, persevere, persevere, persevere, persevere,
 keep fighting, keep standing, keep moving, learn to finish well because as you get through
 this struggle that you're currently in or the next struggle you're currently in,
 as you get through it and you're still standing guess what, you'll be able to stand longer in the next one.
 I don't know if I'll give you a lot of quotes that I'm going to give you one more. Eugene Peterson again
 said, "Joy is not a requirement of Christian discipleship. It is a consequence. It's not what we
 have to acquire in order to experience life in Christ. It is what comes to us when we are walking in the
 way of faith and obedience. Choose, choose today folks, choose joy, choose joy. How do you get more joy,
 persevere, choose to persevere? How do you persevere more, choose not to give up, choose to stand,
 choose to seek strength, choose to go the right path, choose the obedient path, don't choose the easy
 out, choose to spend time having your father speak into the situation that you're dealing with. Remember,
 he is the pursuer of your heart. He's not done. He hasn't stopped. Hopefully this has helped you today
 to take a look at where you are right now and not just finish 2020. I know we kind of went into this
 saying how to persevere through 2020 but folks it's way beyond that. It's way beyond that and listen,
 I'm right there with you. I have been through this stuff. I have experienced it with you. I have
 had the hard times. I've had the times I wanted to give up. I've had the times I've wanted to throw on the
 town. God has just helped me to get to the other side more and more and more and more and more to now.
 I look forward to the growth. No, I don't love trials and tribulation but and I'm not even really
 sure we've experienced tribulation yet but trials and struggles but I do like the outcome and I sure love
 the joy and the blessing that our father in having gives us when we make it through. Hopefully this
 has helped you today. Help us to help more people with this information. If you would do a
 huge favor if this has helped you, go to iTunes, leave a comment, review, you know, leave a writing,
 all that stuff that helps us to reach more people and as always. Take this information today,
 do it today. Change your leadership, change your business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]