 An inside look on setting up a great leadership team that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Acredo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that
 business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome.
 To the show. Yes, we nailed it. There you go. That is. That is called unity. That's unity right there.
 Harmony. I don't know if I would call that a harmony. That was fantastic.
 Hey, even boys to me and how to start somewhere. That is true. That is true. Well,
 welcome to the show. That's there. That's probably not where they started on the street corner
 going to welcome. Welcome to the show. We're so glad you are joining us today. And when I say us,
 welcoming back to the studio, I will start with the fabulous, the amazing, the drop dead
 gorgeous, Heather LeCordo. That last thing you said, told me you're not going to go to me.
 You do always get to start with you now. I think you're dropped at gorgeous too. Just
 you know in a different kind of way. In a different way. Welcome, Heather.
 Oh, thanks.
 You're welcome.
 She doesn't speak much. She doesn't say much. She's a nice vocalist.
 She does a good welcome to the show. Good to have you back on. It's been a while.
 It's good to be back. Good. And switching over to my workwife.
 Hi. Hey, Joel Forder. Welcome to the show. Glad to be back on as always.
 This is a fun one for me because today we're going to do a little bit different.
 Where I'm going to interview you guys. And I think this is probably the third
 version that we've done this. I don't know. But we're taking a look inside of our leadership team.
 And in the other episodes, we've looked at what does it look like to raise up leaders inside of
 the team on that kind of fun stuff. And today we're talking about what does a great leadership team
 look like? And what does it look like to invest timely? And all of that. So, and what does it look
 like to not do that? To not spend it? So that's actually going to be my first question when we come back
 right after this. Hey, leaders. What has this year taught you? For many of you, the events of 2020
 opened your eyes to core challenges and struggles deep within your business. I'm sure we can all agree
 that business as usual isn't cutting it anymore. But as a business owner, you may not know where to go
 from here. I'm here to tell you that it's time for something different. As a leader, it's time to pour into
 your business and your team by learning and implementing core skills that will make an immediate impact.
 I want to help you grow your business and make your team successful. It's time to sign it for the next
 level leadership live event in April. This event is tailor made for small business owners and leaders
 just like you helping you move forward even in a climate of fear and uncertainty. It's not a positive
 thinking session, but a strategic thinking workshop full of insightful and impactful learnings. It's
 going to quickly return to your business and team with a powerful and practical plan that you can implement
 immediately. Take it to the next level leadership live event are available right now and at an extreme
 early bird rate go to crissacrittle.com/live event for more information and to get your tickets. Again,
 that's crissacrittle.com/live event. It's time to change your business and your leadership for the better.
 Don't miss out. All right, we are back and we are going to start with. Here's my first question to you guys.
 We talk a lot about the importance of having a leadership team as you have a growing business. Now obviously,
 people have asked me all the time and should I put a leader in this area? All is that the question? Is there
 anybody going to lead? Well, no, not yet. That's not a leader. If they're not actually leading people,
 then that's not a leader. We don't want you to put people in leadership roles. How to great
 discussion with one of our clients just, well, yesterday about just because somebody's doing
 great in the business doesn't mean that you put them in a leadership role. Just because somebody wants to grow or
 has done a great job doesn't mean you put a leadership role. You put people in leadership roles
 so that they can lead people. So with that in mind, let me ask you guys this question,
 what are leaders missing by not investing in their own leadership teams? Well, I think right off the
 bat is that you're going to miss out on growth. Is that if you can't grow and develop leaders,
 first you can't execute as much, you can't grow as much, you can't do as much, you can't accomplish as many
 goals. You probably aren't going to get to big dreams that you have because it's all on you.
 Or it's going to be just on you and the few people that you're actually able to lead. So growths one of
 the major thing that people are missing out on. Right. Another thing is, you know, you're not
 gifted and talented in everything. You know, we all aren't experts at every single thing. And
 so you may be lacking in the administrative side or you may be lacking in a different area. And so you
 miss out on the opportunity to grow in those areas. Yeah, I think it's a different thing.
 My job is to lead people to success, but there's, and I've been doing it for decades.
 But I have to understand my weaknesses, right? Like I have to know that I don't lead every single
 person the same exact way. One of the things, now I know that and this is what I teach. But a lot of
 folks have to recognize their weakness may not be or their weakness may be that they can't lead somebody
 who's administrative. Like that might do a really good job of leading, you know, more personable
 people like, you know, salespeople or something like that. But when it comes to that administrative
 team, they might really suck at it and getting somebody and who actually does a great job
 leading those personalities. And I'm not saying that you can't grow into that, you know, that our
 hope is that we teach you well that you lean in everybody's direction. But by not having somebody who's
 great at that on your team, you're missing out on that as a as a possibility as well or as an opportunity.
 I should really say, so how can I share another thing about that just that we're missing here. And
 we've got a lot we probably want to cover today. But as another thing you're missing by not investing
 in a leadership team is think about is taxing the collective intelligence. It comes to decision making.
 Absolutely. As it's all on you, it's all on you, the leader who's going to make all the decisions,
 and it's just you and your brain and it's all that you know, rather than what do you think? I think
 about the amount of times the amount of time that we meet and it's us discussing things so that we
 can make a decision that ultimately you will make a decision on. But you will still come and see
 what do you think about this and this? Because I mean sometimes we're already on the same page,
 but how much of the time do you get perspective that helps you make a better decision that without
 Heather or my perspective, it would be a we would go a different direction. And so it's just your
 limiting yourself by not developing that leadership team. And I think this is what's so important is that
 this is your team. This as a leader, another thing you're missing by not investing in the leadership
 team is you are your one person leadership team. You're leading what you see. This is your team. What you're
 saying is is that now no longer everybody in the business is your team. That's right. This is this is your
 number one team. Yes. Because it's this is the head that now runs the entire business that makes the
 decisions somebody needs to. So when you're growing that team of people who all think at a higher level,
 think about how much better your decision making is. Right. Absolutely. So here's a fun question.
 How do you know when a leader isn't cut out for the leadership team? Or when I first I shouldn't
 not a leader, it could be, but really what a person is not cut out for the leadership team.
 I would say the big one that stands out for me is not having that person that is able to take personal
 responsibility. Because I think to be able to be on a leadership team, you really need somebody to
 to own their staff and be willing to take that personal responsibility in areas that they're leading.
 And so if they're just, you know, making excuses or it's always everybody else's fault,
 you're just going to see that snowball if they go into a leadership role. You're just going to see
 it snowball in their team. I think that's such a great point. We see that a lot. I shouldn't say
 we see that a lot. We see that a good number of times where somebody has hired people into leadership roles
 and they do the task they don't take the responsibility and what ends up happening is everything dumps
 back to the leader. Ultimately because there isn't that personal responsibility of no, I've got to
 see this thing all the way through to success. I need to see this team member through to success. And one of
 the frustrating things is watching a leader not take responsibility for team members. I think that is
 something that we have talked about for years and years and years. That's always been something
 in the training process as get to things before I do. Don't let me be the one who calls them out.
 You guys catch those things. When you see somebody who just doesn't, you know, doesn't get on a
 team member, doesn't stop problems, doesn't correct or give consequences. Man, that is a that's a
 difficult thing for the higher leader, the business owner, whoever's leading the leadership team
 to have to do with what do you think? Joe. I think another huge thing is selfishness is that if a leader
 can't get out of their own way and put other people first, they have no business being in that role.
 You've got to be able to lead people to be successful. It's not about you as a leader. It's about
 other people. It's about making them successful and their roles, making the team more importantly,
 successful in their roles based on what's our mission, what's our vision, what's our strategy,
 what's priority, and leader should be able to communicate those things. They should be able to cast that vision.
 They should be able to look and see what's holding people back. They should have that emotional
 intelligence, that social intelligence to be able to see what's going on with my team. All this requires
 is a level of selflessness of looking beyond me and saying, how do I make my people better? How do I make
 them successful? In the process, we're talking about what does it look like to create this leadership team?
 Or if I've got a leadership team and you're hearing these things, you might be going, well, I have
 two people on my team that look just like what Joe said or just like the other said,
 these are things we need to be fixing, we need to be working on. What are some challenges that they're
 going to face in getting this kind of quality leadership team in place? I think one of the biggest
 troubles that I see because I say in a lot of the strap plan events that we do is there's silos that happen,
 and you see each person tends to defend their own team. And so this separation or lack of unity
 happens across the leadership team because they're so focused on their individual teams. And so you know,
 you always ask them what's the number one team you defend? And their response typically is
 their own team instead of the leadership team, which it should be the leadership team. Yeah, absolutely.
 If you're going to have that kind of unity, what are some struggles that you see or obstacles that you
 see? Well, these are probably obstacles that we see across most most businessist period in team
 period is that it's a lack of high quality communication and a lack of high quality,
 accountability. Absolutely. That whole team's back and whether it's a leadership team,
 a leader leading their team, these are the things that hold people back because often we're not
 factoring in personality styles. We're not learning to lean in the direction of another person. We're
 just communicating. This is I'm not thinking about you. It's a you. And so if you're not looking at the
 person across the table and thinking, who am I talking to? What do I know about them? We don't spend
 enough time together. We don't have enough trust. I don't know you enough. So these things just
 break down unity, they break down trust, which really reinforces the silos that Heather was bringing
 up because it's this is what I care about. I don't care about your team as much. Right.
 And so if I don't care about it, and my ever going to make the decisions that I should make at the
 leadership team level of all levels. Yeah. And I think like you just pointed out, people have a tendency
 to go back to a silo function, not only when they don't care about others, but when they believe
 others don't care about them. I can find the one person on the leadership team who seems to care
 about other people. And I will tell you in my early days, it was me. I was the one who worked with
 other leaders and tried to create unity and tried to bring people together and then you'd find these
 people. They just wanted to do their own things like, well, I'm still going to keep working and even
 that they wouldn't work in my direction. That's one of the things that drives somebody right back into a
 silo. All right, we're going to talk more about these things and setting up a fantastic leadership
 team and then Heather is going to sing a solo when we get back. Hey, Joe Fortner here. I'm the
 Vice President of Leadership Development on Chris's team and I oversee our next sub-amastromind program.
 Next sub-amastromind lays out a clear path to success for you in your business. It shows you how to make
 the right decisions, solve complex problems and lead more effectively. This is why collectively,
 our clients saw on average a 46% increase in net profit over the last 12 months. I know business is tough,
 and we build a system around you and give you the tools to help you win. To learn more, visit us at
 Chrisacordo.com/mastermind again at his Chrisacordo.com/mastermind.
 All right, we are back. Heather, go ahead and take it away. Sing it out.
 That's your best solo all day. That's my number one solo right there.
 Hey, I do have a question for you. Taking a look at Unity, we talked about the struggles and the
 obstacles that are going to affect that leadership team, what does Unity on a great leadership team look
 like? What does it take softball pitch here? How did we get to the Unity that we have?
 I would say time to build a relationship, not just inside of the work environment, but outside as well,
 because the trust needs to be there for them to feel safe enough to feel
 happy. We all have each other's backs to have that buy-in. We spent a lot of time together outside of work
 on with each other's families, working through issues. I think that one would be.
 You just hit a big word there. That's super important with the work. It's not so big, but the value
 of it is trust. What does it look like? What does trust look like on a leadership team that doesn't have
 Unity or that doesn't spend time together? It looks pretty bad. There's not a lot of trust there.
 It doesn't look like trust. It doesn't exist. It looks like rust.
 That's right. That's the time for time. It's just rust. In best time, you get
 rust. You get rust. Your metals deteriorated. I think one of the things is the time is a huge thing.
 It's a right turn. It's the importance of leading with mission. I care about Heather's
 part of the mission. I care that she's successful. Leadership teams out there that operating at high
 levels care about what the other people are responsible for and help one another. Not just, well, this is my
 silo. Sorry that you're struggling, but we're doing better over here and you guys get to get your act together.
 Let's just come on. What are you doing? Rather than, no, let's collaborate. Work as a team
 taxiclactive intelligence, but we're all bought into the mission. We're all moving in the same direction.
 Then there is a eye care that we are successful together, not being the hero, that we are successful together
 in accomplishing this mission. When you're operating that way, first it builds more trust.
 I really say it's like to even operate that way. You have to have trust in unity to really buy into
 someone else's, quote, unquote, responsibility area. For some leaders, they may be thinking,
 "Man, I'm busy enough." I'm already overwhelmed enough. How am I supposed to care about
 Heather's area when I've got all my people, all these tasks and pressure and time and all these things
 that are just common in the business world and you're asking me to care about my peers team?
 Yes, I am. But you have to lead this. That's the key.
 Okay, so big question here. What are we looking for? So if we're looking in our team or
 we're looking outside of our team, we're wanting to build this leadership team, what are we looking for
 characteristics wise, quality wise, qualities wise in a great leader or somebody who can be a great leader?
 I think you need someone who's humble and who's not who's teachable, who's going to
 book every thing that comes up in the leadership team and is able to
 just be open to growing another people's perspective and working together as a team, not just
 their thing, so I think that's huge. Yeah, I think all the just people side of things is critical.
 I think we've covered a lot of that. I also think getting into a person that values things like
 processes and systems, they think about efficiency, they value vision casting and a person that has
 the capacity to communicate really well to hold people accountable that they grow into that skill
 and can overcome fear and conflict or whatever that holds them back from being able to hold people accountable well
 and just navigate different differences on teams. How do I help team members solve conflict and tackle
 tough conversations and do you have the capacity to be trained and to develop these skills but also
 things like even strategic thinking? That's what I love when we get together and we have those times
 where we take hours and just strategize. Where are we going? What do we need? What do you think?
 What do you think? What's holding us back? What are the next tires that we take the time to actually
 do that strategic thinking? We have to be able to bring those skills to the table or we wouldn't
 function as well as we do? Let me add to that. They've got to be able to lead their team to success.
 The leadership team isn't a platform or a place for them to get out of boys and to be all about them.
 They really need to be focused on how successful their team is and be focused on growing their team
 and leading their team. There are some points there that I would love to talk about as well.
 I mean, let me turn this off. One of you noticed because what you're saying is they've got to be able
 to take responsibility, Joel, you mentioned the tough conversations. Heather, you mentioned they've
 got to be able to actually lead the people to success. Let's turn this around. What was it like for you?
 Think of what it was like for you when if there was a time you weren't stepping into those roles and
 take having the tough conversations and what did that look like for you guys?
 Well, I mean, I think it's we had the conversations about it and I think for me, I see where I see
 my failure and I see where I'm falling short and it usually becomes a okay, do better in my mind. I've got to do
 better. I've see it now and you're pointing it out to me and I've got to rise to the occasion or I don't
 and I don't grow and maybe I'm not on this leadership team because I choose to hold myself back and I choose to
 plateau and that's fine. It's not that it's fine but it's a choice that you make and for me
 it's say, "Well, I want to do better. I know my potential. I know a lot of my capacity.
 I know I can solve it. I know I can learn that. I know I can do it. It's not rocket science. It's okay.
 That's how to do it. I learn in the environment that teaches me how to do it. It's not about
 beating people up and making them feel like a failure. It's like let me lead you to this see where you're
 failing, help you fix it in a very great way and then it's just go execute. Go implement.
 I think you can either take it one of two ways. You can either take it as pressure and
 become self-protective and prideful and fight or like Joel said you can want to grow and want to be
 better and want to learn and want to grow your team. I think it goes back to having that
 mindset. You've got to be teachable. Otherwise you're not going to make it on a leadership team. It just
 doesn't work that way. I love the point that you made. You shouldn't aspire to be on the leadership
 team because you get a trophy. It's like no. I'm going to use the word. It's a service.
 Yes. It's difficult. No, that really is. Yes. The quote-unquote "hire you go the more self-less
 you need to become." It should be servant leadership. It should be putting other people first, which means
 we've got to learn. Shoot, around here especially in what we teach a teach a so many of our clients is
 work on you, lead yourself more effectively, discover what holds you back. That's why I love like
 what is like 60 to 80 percent of our mastermind coaching clients have come through next to a life
 because they want to learn how to lead themselves more effectively and discover how am I holding
 myself back? Do I have in having that maturity to recognize like I have some brokenness and I have
 some stuff perhaps that I don't see about myself that I want to clear out of my way so that I can become
 a better leader of my family, with my children, with my spouse, with my team, and so I make better decisions.
 Yeah, absolutely. So if I am a leader or business owner who know either I have a leadership team and
 I know needs help and I need help in this process or I want to create a leadership team and I need
 help in this process. What do I do about it? What are my first steps? If you want to develop a
 leadership team and you've got a first look at who are your potential leaders first of all and
 do they have, I mean they answer that question, what makes me think they can actually lead people to be
 successful? So you start testing people. You give them projects. Can you lead another person to
 success on this and this is an important part. There's a difference between leading people and leading
 people to results. Those are wildly different things like I can lead you in circles out in the middle
 of nowhere if I want to or I can lead or I can set an expectation and set a target and discover how
 to lead you there. What if I don't know how to? That's what we have to learn. That's what we have to look at
 and see. Well first, it's, do you have the capacity? Do you have the desire? Do you have that within you?
 Can you do you have those characteristics, attributes, to be able to put people before you?
 Is the passion there? People can't be a task. They can't be a cog in your will to accomplish
 your personal goals. It's you have to have that part about that care for people that desire to
 put other people ahead of you and to be a teacher and be a coach. That's what a leader is. It's not just
 managing things. I remember years ago a former Air Force Chief of Staff came to a meeting's
 ice to, in case for those who were listening don't know ice to work with the Air Force for a decade.
 And former Chief of Staff General John Jumper came to a meeting and he was giving a very,
 there's only 10 or 20 of us in the room and he was sharing this time and his career that he was
 pushing back on some people. He was saying, guys, I'm confused. I thought we led people and managed tasks.
 Because he saw all we're doing is managing. We're trying to manage people. You lead people to be
 successful. So if you're finding people that's on those capacities there and you think it's there
 and you talk to people about it and you think I want to give this a try, don't just give them enough rope to
 go hang them, hang themselves, give tests them, let them get some experience, give them some ability to
 lead some projects, lead across departments and see how they go. See how they do. See how they respond
 to criticism and are they teachable. And that's where you, it's acquiring those kinds of skills.
 And if you're asking, well, how do I lead that? It's like, well, that's what we do.
 That's what we help leaders develop and help owners develop or these skills. People don't
 come and work with us because they know everything. They come and they say, I recognize, I don't know
 as much as I need to know or there's a lot of decisions that are being made in the business that are
 creating a lot more pain or problems or I know things can be better than this and I can develop into
 a better leader of people and manage tasks and manage processes. But so that I can actually learn
 how to do these things. So a lot of people I think feel bad because they look and say, well, gosh,
 I'm not as good as that owner or that leader and I'll never be a, you know, a, you know, a,
 whoever leader they look out out there and say, well, that's a leader and I'm not that person,
 a leader is simply leading one other person to success. That's a leader by default, you're a
 leader. So we've got to be able to, if you're putting that pressure on yourself, did I, I've got to be,
 you know, I'm not the, I don't fit the model of the word leader. It's more comfortable for me to call
 myself a manager. It's, it's just recognizing that, you know, that's just some insecurity,
 but that can be solved. We all have those things that we struggle with. Those are things that
 the more we go after that, then I'll stop talking for a moment, but the more we go after that level of
 personal growth, the healthier we get, we get the better decisions we make and the more effective
 for other people we become. I think it's so funny, you know, we have how many clients we have
 joked about this with the clients, you know, later on as they've been with us for years,
 how many clients have literally said to us, I don't know what, you know, I'm doing, I need you to
 teach me. You know, a client that I have in mind right now who's listening to the show that I just
 love them to death, you know, when he, the very first call we had, he's like, I just became CEO,
 I don't know how to be a CEO, you have to teach me. And I remember just laughing at that moment. And now
 years later, this is somebody whose business was, you know, one of Inc's top 500 fastest-currant companies.
 Yeah, I think. You know, years later, here's somebody who's leading a much bigger business
 than when he became CEO and we have a bunch of those folks that come to us and I go, I am an leadership
 role, I need to know more. I don't know exactly what I'm doing. So it's so funny, as you're going through
 all the things you're saying, you're so speaking from the way that we teach. And I'm sitting there going
 Elon Musk would just, he would disagree with you. You know, here, Elon Musk is somebody who's built
 massive businesses off of not doing it the way that we teach. You know, off of not caring about the promise
 I need to disagree about people, but he's made statements about how he, you know, people are there
 for him to build a business. And so when you look at that, it's, we're so different than that.
 We are building a business where people matter more, you know, like General John Jumper, which is just
 fun to say, right? John Jumper, you know, there's the solo, there's the solo, there's the solo, there's the
 song, there's awesome, you know, the song, there's the solo, now we get the solo, that's fantastic.
 You know, as he's pointing out, I mean, that is so, that is what we teach here, that is what we do. We
 are sitting here in this room as we do the show, we could care less about letting a team that doesn't
 matter. We could care less about having a team of people that don't matter to us, that we don't have
 relationship with, that we're not trying to make successful, you know, because none of us, you know,
 I think we've all been, I know we have, we've all been in our past, you know, in roles where it was
 all about the numbers, it was all about the money and we've all become well beyond that and the
 great thing is the money's there, you know, it's like Zigg used to say, help enough people get
 enough of the things that they want and you'll get enough of the things that you want. You know, I think
 there's, I probably just screwed that Tom in a secular, sorry. I got Thomas, I got that.
 We'll try again. I always screw up Zigg quotes, I'm really close, I'm really close.
 So this is reminding me that they're making me think about a lot of small business owners,
 entrepreneurs out there that are like, that may be hearing that in things like, well, man,
 that's how I have viewed it. I've got this thing, I know how to create it or do it and I know how to sell it
 and I've become what, you know, like, reminds me of both, like, I've become an accident a leader.
 Oh my gosh, I've got it. And then I've got it because I've grown and I've grown and shoot,
 I've got a higher and I've got a higher and I've got enough people and enough money moving around,
 we've now got enough problems and at some point guys, you've got to make the transition to a leader.
 And that's a different mindset shift and when you make that mindset shift, all the rest of all of what
 we're talking about comes into play. And it's like, yeah, it's like, you can grow as successful business
 in a lot of different ways, but I person love how we do it because it's incredibly first of all,
 it's God focused and it's people focused and then everything else falls behind it and I'll tell you at the end of the day,
 it's like, I'm sure we all feel, is at the end of the day, it's very rewarding. There's so much fulfillment
 in that because it's not this pressure focusing on task and numbers, it's focused on first of all,
 the mission we're trying to accomplish and our client's lives first, that's what comes matter,
 that or that's what matters first. And then it's looking at, man, look at the team that we get to do this with.
 And then all the rest of it is third, fourth, fifth, sixth down the line and this is why I think how we teach things.
 It's no no organization or or coaching outfit is a perfect fit for everybody because we're not the perfect fit.
 I mean, we look at how we do things on a mission and we're not a perfect fit for someone who just wants to go
 trailblaze and do it. And it's like, if that's, go, go it, don't hear judgment in that.
 Just to hear a, you're looking for it's a different approach to leadership in terms of how we do it within
 the mastermind program, key leader program, like how we teach it, they upcoming next several leadership
 live event. We've been, I think, promoting for a little bit. It's learning this style of leading people
 and growing a business that's so people first because I think what you're going to find is you're going to find
 that you're going to have more fulfillment and there's going to be even more reward in your life.
 That's such a powerful point and it's so funny as you're saying all those things that the things that are
 running through my mind is y'all's personality styles and your values. But like what you just said there,
 a big piece is actually getting the right teaching involved, the right, here's how to do it,
 the way I want to do it, the way I align with, we just had our next level of mass
 my retreat month ago, I think. And I loved some of our clients that we were outside talking during the
 the social part of the social event that we do on the retreat and one of the clients we were talking
 through why certain people come to us and one of the things he said is he said, you know, in our
 world we'd have to find five different coaches to get what we get here because none of them teach
 all the things that you guys do teach. You know, you get a little bit here, a little bit here, a little
 bit here and that was so powerful and so profound for me to hear, you know, for more of our clients because
 we teach the things from our hearts, you know, this is the stuff that we love to do. So with saying
 that, as you're talking about it, I'm looking at two of my leaders who are both on the values,
 what we, the motivators profile, the values profile, both of your high individualistics.
 That's phenomenal. Joel, you're a 99. I Heather wishes she was a high eye. It's in there somewhere.
 It's in there somewhere, but you know, two very high individualistics, a very high eye,
 Heather, your high SNC. But here's two people who have grown to absolutely love serving people
 and taking care of people. And where, if you just looked at the your values, you'd go,
 well, this is probably not somebody I'm going to put in a leadership role, which I think speaks so highly to
 having the right decision making, the right teaching, the right direction, the right understanding,
 because you guys have matured up into these amazing leaders that care about people more than you care
 about numbers or care about, you know, you guys walking away with accolades or any of that kind of stuff.
 So I think it's just fantastic. Yes. And I'm sitting here to think about that.
 Yeah, and I think that that was going there in my mind as well is looking at for those who are listening.
 It's thinking about what are you looking for for leaders on your leadership team. And
 when I look back in my own story, I think about how many tough conversations, how much of leadership
 of having someone in my life who is you being willing to actually have these conversations with me,
 that I've had to, well, you reach decision points in your make a choice. And then you choose to
 mature, because I look back and of how just selfish, you know, I was for so long, but I had,
 you know, I had, yes, I had my passion for people years ago, but my level of selfishness was so high
 that I couldn't get out of my own way. I was too self-promoting. I was too people pleasing. I was too
 about Joel, and I had to get my nose popped in to be able to see like, dude, you're really not
 doing well in these areas here, but you can do better. And so then it's making a choice to actually
 move on it and try it and fail and grow. And I'm like, for for those who are looking for it,
 you're looking for these kinds of attributes. This isn't meant to be self-promotion right now.
 You're looking for teachability and coachability, and you never stop being that way. We never arrive
 in our leadership journey that I've got it all figured out. And I'm as mature as I can possibly be.
 Yeah. But do you think you would be that coachable, intranable, had the trust not been there
 with you guys? Like, the one of the things that I know about your leadership, and I think because I'm
 a high-ess, I'm I tend to be very guarded. And so the fact that you are consistent in your leadership,
 north is north is north with you. Like, there is no changing with the with the weather with you.
 You can anticipate me. And I think that that plays a big role in the trust that has been built over time
 and the fact that we know you have our best interest at heart and you do have our back. And I know
 Joel has my back and there is this trust there that, oh, I can actually,
 glean off of wisdom and grow and not be self-protective. So do you think that that would be a
 so powerful 100? 100% yeah. Without the trust, you can't receive the information because you don't
 trust the person who's giving it to you or you experience it as judgment, you don't experience it
 as someone trying to help you. And I say that because there may be some people on your leadership team that
 that are protective or not running. Right. And being selfish and they are probably there,
 but then I would say step back and is the trust there or is that piece missing? You know, that's
 an amazing, amazing link. Yeah. And it really shows up and if you're looking at well, how do I
 discover that? If that's your listening to this and thinking that you've got to look at your day-to-day
 interactions with people? What's your communication like? And so the number of coaching calls I have
 that are helping people have tough conversations and helping navigate defensiveness with other leaders
 or other team members, it's a weekly event of how do I handle that? And so you look at well,
 how do I measure trust? Analyse the communication. Analyse the unity. Is it defensive? Is there
 deflection? Are people being self-protective? Are people getting angry? Are they yelling?
 Or whatever? It's like how healthy is the communication? And therefore, you'll see, it's like where
 you kind of stand, how vulnerable are you? Huge measure of trust. How vulnerable can you be?
 It's well. And then you look to look at yourself and say, "Well, gosh, I'm the leader
 leading everyone here and I'm not willing to be vulnerable. How likely are your leaders willing to be
 that at the same time?" I think it's been a, gosh, I love that you guys have just hit that because
 it's something that causes me to reflect. I've always considered it my job to break down your walls,
 break down a focus on what we said. We tell everybody we hire here. Listen, this is a,
 this is not an easy place to work. And one of the reasons why is because we're going to have you
 break down a bunch of selfishness, right? We've all had to do that. We've all been very selfish. We
 still are. We've just gotten better at being able to get rid of a bunch of that. But I've always
 considered that my job as a leader to make sure that if you're going to be selfish, I'm going to have to
 help you to see those pieces. Not be chover the head with it, not yell at you about it, not,
 you know, go ballistic, but walk you through a place where you don't build a wall faster than I can
 reveal it to you. And you know, like as you talked about the guardedness, man, that's probably one of the
 biggest, those are probably two of the biggest things that we see in a lot of leadership teams out.
 There's the selfishness, which leads to silos and the guardedness, which leads to lack of responsibility.
 You know, and you, you, you, you kept saying it and Joel, you just mentioned it about, you know,
 you got to be teachable. And I think that's one of the things that I just love about you guys is that you
 make the decision. This is going to hurt. But what are my options, right? And I think that's a key
 thing for a business owner or a leader is to, you know, we've talked about all these great characters.
 It's characteristics and qualities is, you know, I've got to be able to make sure that this is
 somebody who can take the knocks, but what's my responsibility as the leader making the leader
 better, right? It's not the same as me making somebody great in their role who's doing social media.
 It's not the same thing as me making somebody great in their role who's doing accounting, who's doing
 HR. Those are all, and, insanely important things for us to be successful. But my gosh,
 there's an extra level of responsibility in making sure that a leader become, you know, can become
 really super, you know, responsible in selfless and doing the same concept. So I think that's a big piece
 that starts with me the business owner. So all of us that are out there that are business owners
 and from our stats, that's about 40% of you that are listening. It starts with you. You've got to take
 the respect, you got to take the responsibility. You got to step up. Don't just listen to this
 episode and go, man, that's really good information. Some day I'll do that. You got to step up. You got to
 make a decision. Now's the time. I need to learn more about this. I need to grow in this. I need to
 understand this. I need to have the tools. I need to have, you know, the processes. I need to get the
 things in my life that allows me to, and if you're raising up a leadership team to raise up a
 great leadership team, if you've already got a leadership team, making them even better than they are.
 So good stuff folks. Any last things you want to share? Joel, you want to hit a solo over here?
 Now that we get it. Yeah, we could we could do some voice to make. That's the mission earlier.
 I love those guys. They're phenomenal. They're still playing. They are. They are. They're men.
 But they're still out there. They're still seeing it. I'll look them up every now and then.
 It's awesome. You know, you ever just go Google random things. It's so fun. It's like a blast from the past.
 It's like Bongelli. Surely he's got to be three quarters of the way there by now, right?
 I think he's got to be. Got to be. Come on, John. He's very entrepreneurial.
 He'll be so with her. You know, now I think I think that it's, there's a, we've covered a lot of ground.
 And I think it, it hopefully that you guys are learning as we tell stories and we tell our journeys
 and we tell our struggles and you know that is where there's some of the things that help us be successful.
 And really the thing that that drives us is the better that we can become here as a leadership team,
 the better we are for anyone who comes to work with us. Especially with a mission like this of being
 able to help people and things like next up a life and coach people through seriously difficult decisions
 and their businesses are with their team and that we are, we have to become that way. Otherwise,
 we are not going to do well as with the kind of services that we provide in terms of all these coaching and
 and healing and restorative things that we do in next up a life. And those are the kinds of things
 that really motivate me, like going back in time of really what was motivating me. One is I just want to
 get better and two is as I'm better for other people. Let alone it's a whole other episode of
 all the talk about the family implications of becoming a better leader at business, how does it help you become a better
 leader at in your family. But we're not special people. We just made decisions and choices as we talk
 through these things. You know like man that sounds so far off for me. That sounds so far away.
 Well true change takes time and consistency. It's a decision to start at some point to start with one
 piece. And if you don't know what that one piece is in the next step,
 reach out to us. We'll talk about it. We'll see if we have a program that can help you. One of our coaching
 programs or an event that can help you. This is what we help people do and praise God we get to practice
 ourselves. I do think you're special. Thank you. So it's interesting. Aaron West who is just we love to death
 and just a phenomenal guy. One of our coaches here at the business. One day he asked is I don't even
 remember what we were processing through. We were working on something and he said Chris,
 have you ever duplicated yourself? I literally sat back and I went,
 no, because I'm always growing. So I'm always duplicating people on past versions of me. You know,
 not Matthew McCannick, McConaughey here. No, not a rata rata ride. Jason three people. Probably nobody
 knows what in the world. I'm sure I see a lot of people. That was one of the three people he was Jason
 the guy. I used to be the guy I am now and the guy that I will be in the future. I don't know what it was.
 Anyways, I have always been growing me, but as I've constantly poured into you guys, I'm duplicating
 earlier versions of myself. But if I don't keep growing then how in the world am I going to keep
 making you guys helping you guys to get better in the process? So have there anything any last
 stuff for our leaders out there? So what I would say is you know, you Chris have been leading for
 a long time and same with Joel, you guys have a lot more years under my belt. I'm still a young and
 you're still a young. Put people in your life and that know more than you that you can learn from.
 Gosh, yeah. Yeah, speaking to new leaders, right? I think that's one of the biggest challenges is
 you think that you've got to know everything and it causes you to keep yourself from growing and gaining.
 So that's I think that's powerful. Well thank you guys for joining me again. I appreciate that
 and hopefully folks you've enjoyed this and that you were taking a lot of stuff away from this
 episode to show. As always, our goal is to help you as much as we possibly can. So take this
 information including the fantastic singing that has happened on the show. Yeah, I have an idea. What's
 that? I've an idea. We should sing the closing of the show. Think we can do that. I have no clue
 how we could do that. We could try it. Heather, hit it. Take this information. Wow. What? That was a
 good start. Angel leadership. Grow your business. What do we do? Change your life. And change your life.
 Thank you. Thank you the base met over there. Seriously, folks, take this information, change your
 leadership, change your business, change your life. And join us on the next episode that won't have singing.
 [Music]