 Healthy leaders pour into others that is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show folks.
 Today we are talking about getting ourselves freed up from our self-focused.
 Woohoo! I know you are so excited to not be looking at yourself right?
 And why are we doing this? Why are we focusing on this? Because when we're not focused on us,
 there's an amazing thing that happens. We can focus on other people. We can pour into other people.
 We can pour into the people that are around us. So listen, here's the deal. Every single
 one of us has something good to give others and every single one of us has a level of influence
 that we can share right? So while we're talking to leaders today, if you're listening to the show,
 that's you. You may not have the actual title of leader, doesn't matter.
 If you're a parent, you're a leader. If you're a sibling, I'm pretty darn sure you've
 led siblings, right? If you're a team member, you're probably appear and have found at
 some way shape or form you have led somebody. So really while we're talking to the leader,
 it doesn't mean the titled leader. We're talking to every single person listening. Every one of us
 has something valuable within us that other people need and guess what? It's positive. It's healthy.
 It's life-giving. It's an investment that we make in others and it should be our focus on this
 coming year. So while again, we're saying this is for leaders, folks, it's for anybody that people are
 following you. If somebody follows you, I don't care who it is, what is leading? Leading is helping
 people to get somewhere. They wouldn't normally get to. So this is for you. But think about this.
 Who are the folks in your life looking to you for help or advice? Who's listening to you,
 who's taking cues from you, who's being influenced by your words and actions and it's
 everybody who's really watching you, believe it or not, especially those little ones. If you've got
 kiddos at home, you're probably influencing way more people than you know. And I want to help you maximize
 the effect that you have on them. This is both for their benefits and believe it or not,
 it is for yours as well. So we're going to talk more about that when we come back right out to this.
 Hey, leaders, what has this year taught you? For many of you, the events of 2020 opened your eyes
 to core challenges and struggles deep within your business. I'm sure we can all agree that business
 as usual isn't cutting it anymore. But as a business owner, you may not know where to go from here.
 I'm here to tell you that it's time for something different. As a leader, it's time to pour into your
 business and your team by learning and implementing core skills that will make an immediate impact. I want
 to help you grow your business and make your team successful. It's time to sign it for the next
 level leadership live event in April. This event is tailor made for small business owners and leaders
 just like you, helping you move forward even in a climate of fear and uncertainty. It's not a positive
 thinking session, but a strategic thinking workshop full of insightful and impactful learnings. It's going to
 equip you to return to your business and team with a powerful and practical plan that you can implement
 immediately. Take it to the next level leadership live event are available right now and at an extreme
 early bird rate. Go to crissacardal.com/liveavent for more information and to get your tickets. Again,
 that's crissacardal.com/liveavent. It's time to change your business and your leadership for the better.
 Don't miss out. All right, how do we pour into other people? How do we make sure that we're
 doing the right things to influence people well? Before we do this, let's deal with the elephant in the room.
 Okay, when I said healthy leaders pour into others, what's the first thing that came to mind?
 When you heard that bumper on the front side of the show, what's the first thing that came to mind?
 When you saw that title, what's the first thing that came to mind?
 What comes to mind? Right now, when I say, I want to get you to the place where you can pour into
 other people. What's going through your mind when I say that? Here's the deal. Do you feel yourself
 pushing back or even resisting that idea? Well, here's the thing, Chris, I feel like you're about to
 give me more work. I don't need more work or maybe your answer is, listen, I'm just trying to survive.
 I'm just trying to keep my head above water or maybe you're thinking, how can I really make a difference
 without burning my own self out? Folks, the elephant that I'm referring to is what author Stephen
 Pressfield calls resistance. He says the hiss, most of us have two lives, listen to this.
 Most of us have two lives, the life we live and the unlived life within us between the two
 stands resistance. So it's kind of unpacked that a little bit. We are living the life that we are
 currently living, well no, Chris, no, it's following. But we're not done with what we've got when it
 comes to potential. Believe it or not, for a lot of us, we're not done with what we have when it comes to
 capacity. Chris, I am just crazy busy right now. You know, I've got the kids at home, the dogs, the cats,
 the spouse, everything's gone. I have no more capacity. I get it. That's not what I'm talking about.
 What I'm talking about is we're choosing to live life in a way that is leaving a whole lot of
 potential in capacity on the table. And so because we see how busy we are or because we see
 that it's exhausting or because maybe we're afraid to stretch. Maybe we're afraid to do more.
 Become more. Maybe we're afraid that we're going to be failures if we push ourselves more.
 Whatever the thing is that's causing that resistance that's keeping us from living the unlived life,
 being more, becoming more, doing more. That's the thing that's holding us back.
 Whatever that it might be a lie that you're telling yourself. I'm not good enough to pour into other
 people. I'm not good enough to lead people well. Whatever that is, that's that resistance.
 Right, the resistance is in the response. Well, I'm not ready to step out and pour into others.
 What does that even mean? Why are you not ready? What's that thing holding you back?
 What is the big deal of stepping out and pouring into other people?
 Maybe the answer is Chris, I just don't know how or for a lot of people, it may be that you've failed.
 Perhaps you've tried pouring into people and it just didn't work out that well.
 Right, I don't know. But for some reason, there's that thing that holds us back.
 Freud called this a destructive force in human nature that rises whenever we consider a tough,
 long-term course of action that might do good for us or others.
 Think about that. This resistance is something that becomes destructive because we don't want to go
 after it. It's something that is in our human nature that says, I shouldn't go do that.
 I shouldn't step out there. People don't want me to pour into them. I have too much on my plate.
 I'm too busy as it is or like we're seeing a ton nowadays. Maybe it's the victim mentality.
 Maybe victim mentality is holding you back from pouring into other people. Well, they should pour into me.
 Nobody pours into me. I'm somebody that people should be pouring into. If people really care, they'd focus on me.
 Maybe it's the issue of me, me, me, me, right? Whatever that is that resistance is holding us back.
 What's it holding us back from? Resistance holds us back from living the life we were meant to live.
 Believe it or not, there is a whole long list of things that God wants you to do to live the life
 that he wants you to live. He has a life that is meant for you. It's our job to go seek that and discover what that is.
 It's actually not our job. There's a lot of people that teach you that it's your job to go out and get yours and do yours and
 take care of you and go stand at the top of the mountain and shout who you are. All those books that you're reading that are saying that.
 None of those are coming from the Bible. None of that is God's decision for you. God wants you to seek him and he will show you
 the life that you're meant to live. So what else is resistance holding us back from? A life that is fruitful
 that runs over and outward pouring into others. It is absolutely a Hebrew belief system
 that we are supposed to actually pour beyond ourselves to pour out with our resources, that our resources aren't
 meant just for us, that we're not supposed to stock pile, that we're not supposed to hoard, that we're supposed to go
 and do, we're supposed to take care of us and our family and then we're supposed to have plenty to actually pour back out.
 What else is resistance holding us back from? Yes, you were born to make a difference in other people's lives.
 You were not born to only focus on your life. You were born to take care of other people as well.
 So we're talking about what's holding you back from reaching your potential and really pouring into others in a healthy way.
 I'm going to turn to the words of the amazing Michael Jackson who said it best.
 I'm starting with the man in the mirror. Yes, that's all you get for me today folks. I'm not singing that one for you.
 Okay, maybe I will. I'm starting with the man in the mirror. Thank you Brian's melting the words over there.
 Oh boy, we just lost listening to each other. So the first thing that healthy leaders must do is
 self-assass. Let me say it again. The first thing you've got to do is take a hard look at yourself.
 Too many people are looking to other people and to entitlement and to situations to try and nail down what's due to them.
 Colossal always the time. Instead what you've got to do is you've got to take a hard look at you.
 What are you doing? What are you believing? What are you making happen, right?
 So first off, we gain perspective on ourselves. That is called self-awareness. So I'm going to compare
 our message here to the message of some very popular thought leaders that are out there right now.
 Some people that are making incredible amounts of money writing books that are helping people to focus on themselves.
 What's the difference? Our message here is not being self-centered, right? You have to self-assess
 so that you can be incredibly aware of yourself so that you can focus on taking care of the things
 that need to be fixed. What it comes to you so that you can then not focus on you.
 As opposed to some of the more popular thought leaders out there that are screaming, it's all about self-care.
 You have to take care of you. Ladies, there are some thought leaders in the female world right now. The
 female thought leaders that are screaming that you need to focus on you. You are, you take care of the
 world. You've got to focus on you. You have to focus on self-care yet. These are things that drive me nuts.
 Because when you look at the message and I have and you dig down, you get people that respond by saying,
 "Oh my gosh, that person just knows they get me, they understand." And then I always asked this question.
 What did you learn from it? It was just really good because they get me. What did you learn from it?
 Well, that somebody understands where I am. Did they help you solve? Did they give you steps?
 Did you, are you focusing on not focusing on you? No, I'm focusing on I need to spend more time focusing on me.
 Folks, this is a dangerous message. It's a message that says, "I get it. You're not happy on life.
 You're living in a difficult situation. You have all these people that you take care of.
 For you, you should go focus only on you. You should self-care. You need to spend a lot of time
 taking care of you. Listen, in no way shape or form am I saying that you should not take care of yourself.
 In fact, what do we teach here? We teach that you've got to do specific things to take care of yourself,
 but not so you stay focused on you. Our goal is not to create a self-centered person. Why?
 Because people who focus on taking care of themselves become incredibly entitled in life.
 They become very difficult to work with, to deal with. They believe everybody should then turn around
 and take care of them. Hey, I'm sorry, I'm a gen Xer. We bust our butts. We're the work-enist people.
 They're have been. Okay, maybe not have been, but definitely in a lot of generations around us.
 We bust it. We make things happen. We don't sit around waiting for everything to happen for us.
 We bust it, right? And there are these people that are giving these messages that are saying,
 "You are doing so much. Go take care of you. Spend time taking care of you." And what's happening is it's creating a lot of entitlement.
 Take care of you so that you can solve things, so that you can fix things, so that you can do things well and right and good.
 And then take care of people. Go focus on others. Because there is something that people don't really understand
 and you need to get this, the more time you spend focused on you, listen to me on this.
 The more time you spend focused on you, the more you will see all the problems, the more you will
 create more problems, the more you will become a victim in life, the more everybody else is going to be wrong and bad and horrible.
 If you are self-focused and self-centered, then what happens is everything in the world happens to you.
 You become a victim. You are not going to hear me ever teach you to go be a victim.
 You will hear me teach you over and over again gain phenomenal perspective, put incredible tools in place, solve a whole bunch of crap,
 and then go make better decisions in life. Go focus on God, go focus on other people. So
 may have just lost some followers. Hey, I'm sorry. But if the message that you want for me
 is that you need to spend your time taking care of you because you spend time taking care of other people,
 that's just not going to be my message. What you are going to hear from me is you spend very
 thoughtful time getting you healthy. Let me say that again. You spend very thoughtful time
 getting you healthy and then that will help you so that you can pour in a healthy way into other people.
 So the next thing that healthy leaders or healthy people do or healthy influencers and there's
 a lot of influencers out there that are not healthy, the next thing that healthy leaders do is to address
 their own problems. I can't do what I do being selfish. We have a business full of people helping
 other people. We can't do this business being incredibly focused on ourselves, being self-centered,
 being victims. You know, where the world everything happens to us, we can't do that, we can't do
 shows, we can't do events, we can't do coaching and counseling. I'm not saying there aren't a lot of
 people out there who don't have platforms in our famous and their incredibly selfish. Definitely,
 there's no doubt about that. But in out with our message, there's something that you have to be.
 You have to be able to put other people before you. You have to, if you're going to be healthy
 and help people, focus on the word being "help", right? Not just give advice that doesn't help
 somebody. If you're going to help people in life, you have to be able to put you aside.
 You have to be able to put them first. Well, if you are unhealthy and you are putting other people
 first, what's going to happen? You're going to discover you will crash. You can't do that.
 The first half of my life, I did that. The first half of my life and even a little bit further past that,
 I spent my time putting other people first and I wasn't healthy. I was very much a people
 pleaser. I've got all of my worth from people. I got all of my worth from what I thought was taking
 care of people, which many times was enabling them and many times it was allowing them to steamroll right
 over me. And God smacked me upside the head one day and he's like, "This has got too stop.
 You're not helping. You're hurting. And you're hurting by enabling." So here's the deal.
 You have to address your own problems. I had to go and solve the people pleasing. I had to learn
 healthy boundaries. I had to learn to be able to put things in place to those people who were wanting
 to take advantage or control or manipulate and say, "I'm sorry. I've allowed this to happen. No more."
 Now, all of my nice, I'm a very high-s, by the way, I focus always thinking that I'm a high-d,
 those that follow personality styles because I have confidence now. Right? But guess what? I'm a
 very high-s, I'm a very high-high-high-high-high-high, and I've gotten out of like about a 40-d.
 I, for all of my high-s, is that out there going, "Oh my gosh, I could never do that."
 Folks, I did. Now, I did it because God said, "Enough is enough. You got to fix this." Right?
 I was able to do that. I worked hard at it. I learned what it was like to put healthy boundaries
 in place. I learned what actual healthy boundaries were. You know what they are? How to utilize them?
 How to put them in place? In my early days, I had to put hard healthy boundaries. I mean, like,
 I had to put it in with a lot of just energy. You don't get to do this anymore.
 And as I got healthier, I didn't have to use as much energy. And now, it doesn't take anything.
 Right? It's easy for me to see when people are being unhealthy toward me or are trying to control
 or manipulate, right? And so I just make different choices. So the second half of my life,
 I've been helping people for decades, get better, get healthier. Guess what? I couldn't do what I'm
 doing now if I didn't go through what I went through back then. I couldn't do what I'm doing now.
 If I was still being self-focused with this convincing of myself that people pleasing is a good thing,
 that it's a right thing. It's not. Enabling does not help anybody, right?
 So our endgame here goes beyond today's ego-centric mantra of you, you, you, right?
 Our focus here is start with God. You start with your father, the king of the universe.
 You discover the things that he wants you to do. You discover the things that are struggles in your life
 and you focus on those things. Fix those things and then go help a bunch of people with it.
 I believe that you are made for more than just you, you, you. I believe that you are made
 for more than stockpiling money. I believe that you are made for more than focusing on achievements in life
 for yourself, awards, rewards, recognitions. I believe that you are made to lift others up.
 There is a phrase in Hebrew, "Mish potten" said to God, "Justice and righteousness."
 When you see it in a Eastern lens, it's not the same as our lens. Instead, to God,
 justice is lifting others up. That's why we see so many times in the Bible, how God is upset against
 the leaders who focus on themselves instead of focusing on those who are suffering and struggling.
 Those who are being oppressed. You focus on showing yourself to all these people that you're
 something important and there are kids starving and there's widows that can't take care of themselves.
 Where's God's heart? Lift people up. If you've never seen our logo, it has two things.
 It has a shepherd's crook and it has an arrow. That shepherd's crook in the east where they don't
 have much flat land. They have lots of healing land. A lot of times that crook is to help lift
 the smaller sheep up that can't get up to the food in the water. I mean, you get up above them
 and reach down and lift them up. Now that might sound cruel to you. It's not. It's literally
 getting them to a place where they can have sustenance. Folks, that's your job.
 Your job is to help other people get sustenance. Your job is to be able to get above so that you can
 lift them up. Now the arrow for us is that we help people who can't fight for themselves. That's another
 aspect of what we do. So listen to how Jesus put it in Matthew 7 3 through 5. Why do you look at
 the spec of sawdust in your brother's eye and pay no attention to the plank in your own eye? How can you say
 to your brother? Let me take that spec out of your eye. When all the time there's a plank in your
 own eye, you hypocrite. First, take the plank out of your own eye and then you will see clearly
 to remove the spec from your brother's eye. Very often, we can't possibly recognize because we
 don't self-assess. We can't possibly recognize that we have a plank in our eye, the same time we're
 trying to help others. Now I'm probably going to step on a couple of toes. There is a lot of folks
 who have a people pleasing mentality. You know, we would call that a root system surface level response,
 people pleasing. There are a lot of folks who have a savior mentality. There are folks who literally go
 around. I see this often. There are folks who go around telling people all the things they're doing wrong
 and all the things that they should be doing and calling them out on the things that they're not doing.
 The whole time it's the very same things that they're struggling with. Now I will tell you,
 God's smack to me upside at the head on that a long time ago when I was helping somebody and
 allowing that very same thing, helping somebody on putting healthy boundaries in place and I didn't even
 recognize that it was happening to me. I was not putting those healthy boundaries in place.
 So here's what you need to understand. If you find yourself frustrated with how people are living,
 doing, making decisions and you can so clearly see the very things that they're doing wrong,
 there's a really good possibility. It's because you're doing the same things and you're not recognizing
 that you are doing those. So remember, get that plank out of your own eye before you jump to help
 somebody else get the plank out of your eyes so you can help them with the speck in there. So let me ask you,
 what is the plank or obstruction that is in your own eye? What's the thing that's blocking your perspective?
 What's the thing that's holding you back? Let's ask these things of ourselves together, okay?
 Are there still pains in my past? Do I have grudges and bitterness? Are there worth
 issues I'm still dealing with? Are there approval and control issues? Where am I getting my value from?
 Guaranteed 99% of you? Man, right? It's not coming from God. Oh, Christ, I'm a Christian.
 Of course, I get my value from God. How? Answer that question. What you'll discover is you're
 not getting your worth from God. Do I have weight or food issues? Do I have bad or unhealthy financial
 decisions that I'm making? And the biggest? Where is God in all of this? So think of all those questions
 we just asked of ourselves together. What are your answers? Would you come up with? If you're like
 no to all of those, wow, you are doing phenomenally well? That's awesome. But chances are, there's a lot of
 those we can say as to. Yeah, there's some pains that I'm still struggling with. Some pains I haven't
 gotten over. Yeah, there's some grudges that I'm holding that I still haven't gotten over because I don't know how.
 I know that I've got 'em. I know that I've got worth issues, Chris. You talk about the worth issues.
 Don't know how to get over those. Don't know how to get my worth from God. Here you talk about
 that my worth is supposed to come from God. But I still don't know how to do it. All I know is people
 please, right? Get my worth from man or a cheap whole bunch and get my worth from man or buy a fancy
 car and try and please the person at the stoplight, right? So yeah, I got worth issues. I just don't know
 to do with them. Well, if we're not aware of these very problems, we can't do anything about it.
 We need to address our problems so we can get past ourselves. Let me say that again.
 We need to address our problems so we can get past ourselves so we can get healthy so we can get
 that plank out of our eye, right? So we can help others get the speck out of theirs. So let's pause and
 review if you're not self-assessing, you can't even see your own problems. Without addressing
 your problems, you can't get past yourself without getting past yourself. You'll never really
 focus on others. So if this is where you're at, you're addressing your own issues moving past yourself,
 not letting self-centeredness, hold you back, then let's take a moment right now and even pause the
 podcast if you need to and take inventory of who's around you that need your voice. So stop and think
 about that for a second, right? Who in your life, who in your your community, who in your your circle
 needs your voice? All right, we're going to talk about how to take care of the things you need to
 take care of so that you can pour into other people when we come back right after this. Next level of life
 is our two-day personal discovery experience. It's a one-on-one personalized event where we guide you
 through a process to help you discover your root system, to get on stuck in life and to discover what's
 holding you back from freedom and peace. Imagine this, what if you could wake up every morning
 with a clear purpose? What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict? Where would you
 be in a few months, a year, five years, if you had clarity, purpose, and peace? Probably a big
 difference for more you stand today. Now I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking
 myself is there more. There is and there is a better way and it starts with the next level of life.
 You can go to Chrissacorda.com/discover to take the next step. Now if you're struggling with this
 contentment, regret or not feeling good enough which most of you are, if you're filled with anxiety
 or your relationships are lacking, don't keep going through the same motions every single day. Learn how to
 move past the things robbing you of peace. Go to Chrissacorda.com/discover and take the next step.
 Okay we're back and we're asking the question hey Chrissacorda, I hear all this great information
 that you just shared but where do I start? What do I do first? How do I even know? How do I solve
 the stuff for me and then how do I start looking to pour around? Well first place you need to start
 is your focus on God. Now yes I know you hear me say that a lot and yes I know you say Chris I go to church.
 Guys that's not focusing on God right? It's great to have community. It's great to hear a lesson
 how much time are you spending getting to know God's word? How many times have you gone from the
 front of the book all the way to the back of the book? How much do you know about it? How much are you spending
 time not just listening to somebody preach at you with one or two small verses not even getting the
 context of where those verses are coming from and then sharing a bunch of their stories or things to
 make it flashy. To know God you've got to know his word. Now if you look at Ephesians 4 5 and 6
 God kind of lays out this process we call it the relationship circles right where you see where God's
 emphasis is on who's the most important relationships or what are the most important relationships
 you should be working on. So if you think about this and again we use this in next level life.
 If you think about these circles the smallest circle and then the next circle outside of that and the next
 circle outside of that and the next circle outside of that. The most focused circle is that one in the
 center who should be in that God. Folks he is the one who owns you he is the one who has your destiny
 tied up right he is the one who is going to take care of your eternity. You see they're going to be
 with him or it's going to be with Adam. So guess what shouldn't you focus your time on understanding
 the one who holds your eternity. Yes you should. If you're following somebody who tells you you shouldn't
 do that you should just show up to church once a week and that's plenty you're doing good. Leave.
 Go somewhere else go to somebody who actually is teaching you how to go deep on your relationship with God.
 He's your father. He's the most important being there is ever. You should have a really good
 relationship with him right? Now I'm going to shock some of you on this. The next circle who's the
 next most important being in your life. It's supposed to be your spouse. There should be no more
 important human being than your spouse. That should be the most important relationship you have. I'm
 going to speak to some of you folks out there women men whoever's doing this that you keep putting
 your kids before your spouse shame on you. What a horrible thing to do. Listen the way we put it here
 is if you want the person in the circle to realize that they're not that important to you let them see
 that somebody else outside of their circle is either in their circle or ahead of them. Think about that
 for a second. So what we're saying is this most people do not have God at the center and a lot of
 folks don't have their spouse up there either. Right? So what you're telling the people that are supposed
 to be in those circles you're just not that important and folks love your kids like crazy but if you
 want to love your kids incredibly well love your spouse the more you love your spouse the more you
 will train your kids well and teach them how to love. Listen that should be the most important person
 who's in the next circle. It's not your friends, not your extended family, it's your kids. So God in
 the center spouse in the next ring the next circle kids in the next circle. Yes this is the way
 these are the relationships that God is saying to look it up go read Ephesians. You will see very
 clearly who he puts first and next and next and next. Right? Guess who's next? Your team. Yes what I'm
 saying is if you are the owner of the company your team is more important in this lineup then
 friends extended family. Right? Why? Because these are the people that put the food on your table
 they make your business happen and guess what? In their lives you as the business owner are supposed
 to be in that circle for them. Why? Because you're the one who puts the food on their tables.
 It's crazy thing we completely do not focus on this. My team is incredibly important to me.
 I take care of them not before the other circles but my gosh I take care of them and it's a heavy
 emphasis for me and we have a phenomenal teaching environment here and my goal is to give and take care of them
 as much as I possibly can because that makes God happy. That's my job. So Chris this is fantastic.
 Why are you listing all of this stuff out? Well this is how you should focus on where you pour into.
 If you are going to pour into people place you gotta start first. His God.
 Folks get the tools to learn how to go into a deep relationship with God.
 The more you focus on him the more you will see the things that are happening in your life that are
 not good things you haven't dealt with. The things you've got to fix. The things you've got to change.
 Then get the tools on how to solve those things. Get your butt in the next level. If you know
 you need to be here. Get your butt in. We will take care of that. Give you all those tools. Then you need to
 take care of who your spouse. That's the first human being outside of fixing the stuff you've got to
 fix about you. Not the OGO spend you know 17 hours a week taking bals and your self care with your
 candles. Not saying that spending some time there is not a good thing of course it is but don't spend your
 all your time self care that's ridiculous. What I'm saying is solve the things you need to solve about
 you. Let's get the plank out of your eye and then pour into your spouse. Pour into your spouse.
 Pour into your spouse. Did I make that clear up? Right? How do you make your spouse successful?
 Men. It is your job according to God to find out what his will for your life is and to follow it.
 You gotta do that. And when he gives you that spouse that you have it is your job to love that spouse.
 Like Jesus love the church. Well how did he love the church he died for it? You took the
 world's worst beating on for it. He took the sins of the church on. Right? Now you can't do that.
 But you can love your wife incredibly well. One of the big ways you do that follow God's will.
 Discover God's will for your life. He will bless you in that. And love your spouse. Ladies.
 Same thing. It is your job to see God's will for your life. It is your job to make your husband
 successful as well. We are not supposed to live these separate lives where we go in separate
 directions and go after our aspirations and achievements and all of that. We're supposed to be one flesh.
 We're supposed to love each other the way that Jesus loves us. Right? So how do you make your
 husband successful? How do you love your husband incredibly well? What are the things that you need to
 do to make that happen? And the whole time husband's your loving your wives well. Why have your loving your
 husband's well? Guess what you're teaching the kiddos? How to do the very same thing?
 And if the kids see this is powerful. If the kids see that the spouse is more important than they are,
 they will learn the proper focus of love and they will carry that over into their relationships.
 It is important that the kids know that they are incredibly loved by the parents, but that they're
 the other parent comes first. That teaches them how to love properly. After you've done this
 pouring into your spouse pouring into your kids, folks, don't spend time building an empire to yourself.
 Don't spend time pouring into people outside of your family and you're not spending time on your family. It's
 terrible. For all of you that know what a P.K. is a preacher's kid or a pastor's kid.
 You see these situations where somebody is in ministry and they spend more of their time pouring into
 other people than they do their own family and what happens. The kids go off their else.
 They spend time doing bad things trying to get daddy or mommy's attention.
 And then they just spend time doing bad things. Why? Because other people were in their circle.
 Other people were more important than they were. Poor into your kids. Your kids are your
 responsibility before other people. Period. You should not be somebody that is out there spending your time
 pouring into all these other people and your kids are falling apart. Your spouse is falling apart.
 Make this priority correct. Then who do you pour into your team? If you're the business owner,
 for the business leader, you pour into your team. If you're the team, then you bust it for your
 business owner. After you've taken care of your relationship with your spouse, after you've taken
 care of your relationship with your kids, now you pour into your team. As we say around here,
 all the time, it's your job is to lead and make your team successful, not the other way around.
 So how do you get in there and make them successful? Folks, if you do these things,
 if you spend your time with the right priorities, you will be absolutely blown away at how much
 work you have to do right in front of you. You don't have to go outside of these categories. Trust me.
 You don't have to go fine. You know, go on some expedition to try and find people that you can
 change their lives. You have plenty right where you are. Don't take on more than you can handle.
 Take care of what God has blessed you with. Take care of what's right in front of you. Do it
 in the right priorities. Do it in the right order and you will discover as you get healthy, the more
 healthy you can make those around you. The more healthy you can influence those around you to be.
 So folks, this is the last episode of this year. I hope that you are focusing on 2021
 not being a carbon copy of 2020. I hope that you are not carrying over the stress and the crap of
 this year into the next one. I hope that you are not looking at a year and allowing it to be defined by
 what's happened in the past year. Instead, get healthy. Let next year be the year you get the
 healthiest you possibly can be. There are so many things that you can do to get healthy. By doing so,
 it will allow you to influence those around you to be healthy. You to lies this upcoming year to do
 exactly that. As always, our hope is that this information helps you. There's lots of folks
 you know that need to hear this, share it with them. If you do a safavor, go online and give us some
 ratings on iTunes and give us a comment, leave a review if you would, that helps us to reach more people.
 It helps other people to get this message as well. That helps us to reach more people and get them this
 message so that they can get healing as well. As always, take this information, change your leadership,
 change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [BLANK_AUDIO]