 So the fear side of it, you know, because I think of all aspects, I think, you know, we have women that are in the church that are like, "Oh, I am facing an unplanned pregnancy, I'm unmarried. What is the church going to say?"
 So we say women go from the church pew to the abortion clinic because of the fear. And that is one in four women in our church.
 So, you know, it's the fear of how people inside the church will respond?
 Yes, absolutely.
 Welcome to the Crystal Cardo Show, where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks. Hope you're having a fabulous day. It is a great day here in the studio. We have Serena Dyson with us today.
 We're going to be talking about her brand new book. She found his grace. And she has a fantastic story, a great ministry. And a lot of great information that we are going to be talking about.
 So let's just dive right in Serena, welcome. Thank you for having me today.
 That was good to have you on the show. Not your first time in the building? No.
 We go back a ways. You've been through next level of life. You've been through next level of leadership.
 Live event, all that kind of fun stuff. But you're now an author.
 It's kind of crazy to think about isn't it? It is, isn't it? I mean, it's just amazing how much you guys have been doing and what you've been accomplishing.
 So for all those folks out there listening, kind of tell us your story. Tell us about your cell.
 We'll get to the story. But tell us about yourself.
 Okay, I'm Serena Dyson. I've been married for 27 years to my high school sweetheart. We have two children.
 And Bruce is here in the studio with us. And we have two adult children. I'm Annana.
 Our daughter is expecting her second baby, which is so fun. And I'm the founder of She Found Discourse Ministries, a global ministry.
 And yeah, we're just saying busy just serving the Lord with around the world. So we're super excited.
 So now we are going to talk about some tough stuff. So for our list, I'm preparing our listeners. You're doing this all the time. You are all over the place.
 You've been on so many different interviews. You've been in so many different conferences and all that kind of fun stuff.
 So you're used to talking about this. But I would do want to say you've come through again next level of life. And I'm going to talk about that.
 So those folks that are out there right now, you may not be prepared for this. Take a deep breath. We're going to hit some heavy stuff.
 We are going to hit some heavy stuff. So we're going to hit that when we come back right after this.
 Hey, leaders. What is this past year taught you? For many of you, the events of 2020 opened your eyes to core challenges and struggles that are deep within your business.
 I'm sure we can all agree that business as usual just won't cut it this year. But as a leader in a business owner, you may not know where to go from here.
 So I'm here to tell you that it's time to make a change. As a leader, it's time to pour into your business and your team by learning and implementing new core skills that will make an immediate impact.
 It's time to sign up for the next level leadership live event this April. This event is tailor made for small business owners and leaders just like you helping you to move forward even in the climate of fear and uncertainty.
 This is not a positive thinking session, but a strategic thinking workshop, chalk full of insightful teaching and impactful learnings. It's going to equip you to return to your business and your team ready to implement and immediately impact their growth and stability.
 Take us to the next level leadership live event are available right now at a special early bird rate. Go to crsacrilo.com/liveofent or text live event 1 word to the number 4-4-2-2-2
 For more information and to get your tickets. Again, that's crsacrilo.com/liveofent. It's time to change your business and your leadership for the better. Don't miss it.
 All right, so again, we are talking with Serena Dyson and the book is "She Found His Grace". Tell me about the book and why you wrote it.
 My book is my life story. I had grown up in a pretty rough home and didn't grow up in the church. We found myself when I was 13. I was sexually assaulted by a relative.
 We were just given the option of having an abortion with an unplanned pregnancy. There was no other options. That was supposed to help us.
 We know that it did not help. It went into a lot of heartache. A lot of struggles in life and not even understanding, not even pinpointing that was a huge part of my struggles.
 I was just recently when the movie "I'm playing the game" came out. A friend invited me to go to that movie.
 It was a powerful movie. I highly recommend it. People need to understand. There were lots of people. After they watched it, they said, "forgive us. We didn't understand."
 I didn't know what that movie was about and it was like watching my life unfold. I just heard the Holy Spirit saying, "Now's the time to tell the rest of your story."
 I wrote our story and just a way to help families see the heart so they can walk through their healing process.
 It's been a tough life period but taking the story and writing it down. You sum up the whole book in one word, which is "redeemed."
 I was in a pit. I was in a pit. Our life was so...
 I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in
 I was waiting for you to say my name. That's all I needed you to do. That redemption piece is just knowing what?
 I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in a pit. I was in
 It's about to go through something that would be traumatic. It's bad enough to experience the situation. But what you do to yourself for the next year,
 two years, five years, ten years, twenty, thirty, forty, however long and how much you beat yourself up over this. One of the things that we've been doing this now,
 gosh for so long, we've been over four hundred next level of events. In every single time we see somebody come from a very traumatic or tragic situation, there's always this massive level of guilt.
 I did something wrong. I must have caused this. I must have. I'm shameful. I'm the horrible person. I'm the one. And as a 13-year-old victim, that's exactly what you are.
 But still, it just pounds this thought process into your mind that I'm not good enough. Otherwise, how are you ending up in a place where life is so difficult? So redeemed speaks.
 It's interesting. You and I have the conversation about originally you thought of it as being restored, but what restored means is that it takes you back to the way you were. And that's not where you are. You're in a completely different place now.
 I'm kind of talking about the difference of going back and where you are today. What does that look like for you?
 Yes, so before I was always in this never felt good enough, never knew quite where I fit into anything, never thought that I deserve to have my children.
 That was even though I didn't realize having an abortion in the past was causing that. And that's very common with lots of women. But just feeling like I don't deserve them.
 Even with my with Bruce, I don't deserve him. And so that was always I would always sabotage that and always put up these boundaries and I don't want to say boundaries, but just I would draw a line in the same end because if you get too close that might be a little wall.
 That will hurt. That will hurt. And always looking for approval of other people and just like always wanted them to approve who I was not knowing my worth in the Lord.
 Not growing up in the church, not having that background and not understanding any of that. And so I think moving through the healing process and realizing first off my worth in the Lord.
 And knowing who he says I am. And then also I think another pretty big moment for me was also Bruce at 16, we found ourselves pregnant again and he chose to be he chose fatherhood.
 And yeah and you know we were offered abortion again. But Bruce said you know what I don't know how we'll figure this out, but we'll figure this out after I shared my story.
 And I think I had elevated him higher than he needed me.
 And I think I had to go to the other side of the church. And I think I had to go to the other side of the church.
 Interestingly people can take that and think well no we're just solving the problem that you have and not realize what is it saying about you there's something wrong with you right.
 And so praise God you have this 16 year old right which is just still 16 year old male doesn't really know a whole lot in their life yet but willing to say nope we're doing this.
 And so that probably did create issues going forward by putting him on a big pedestal. So I think the thing the reason why I asked that question is there's so many people out there that and we see it all the time we see people that say I don't deserve to have my life fixed you know to go to something that's going to help me or to have the tools and you've said it multiple times about the way you looked at yourself is I didn't deserve this right.
 And the guy who teaches this for a living that's where I was a my early days is I don't deserve that that's for other people you know that's for people that are better than me.
 I don't deserve good things I don't deserve a good spouse I don't deserve and praise God you know God took a two by four upside my head and started showing me the very things that you're talking about is love that grace that mercy everything in there so you guys both came through next level life.
 How have those experiences and and I we talked about it earlier we had lunch earlier today and we talked about that you sent Bruce through first let's test the waters let's see how this goes and you guys have been with us for over gosh probably.
 Some around ten years you've been followers from way back in the day. Come to the events all that but when it came to next level life.
 Were you apprehensive at first.
 You know we didn't know what to expect so we kind of had the conversation knowing my background was so messy so broken like we kind of came into this thing of like we know you have junk in your life.
 And like it's a hot mess so like for me I was just anticipating like yeah I'm coming in with lots of stuff but for Bruce he grew up in a Christian home and life was pretty normal so so it was like kind of a sucker punch for him going through because he wasn't and he wasn't expecting some of the stuff.
 Yeah and so working through that and just saying you know I think for us going through it.
 What you realize is that even if you have a normal life they're still some stuff that you need to unpack and that was so beneficial for us.
 You know because I think for us you know Bruce kind of would look and say well you have all that garbage in your.
 And so that was kind of a conflict sometimes just because of like we knew that and so it was kind of like you could just kind of brush that off as like your background's kind of crappy.
 And so whatever but then realizing hey we both have some stuff to unpack and how that's really helped our marriage of the healing process and even communicating to our kids and.
 You know I had no idea my story was going to be in a book and media and all of that stuff and just knowing okay all right you know I can gauge people when I'm having conversations and and knowing where my worth comes from and.
 Hey I do have something that I can bring to the table even though my background was messy that's okay like this is where my worth coming from so.
 Interesting because we have clients here so as they're listening to this.
 You know that heart we're going through next level life when you guys came in earlier and just being able to for them to hear as they're walking through the process and you guys have been cash spent a couple of years.
 And since you guys have come through for them to be able to hear so the husband's going through right now in the spouses is sitting in as well and for them to hear he all's experience was just fun to see that.
 That communication.
 But you're so right people all the time are like well my life's not that bad you know side I'm there's anything I need help with.
 And what we say is every human being walking needs to go through this because there's things that are holding you back or things that plateau you that you don't know about.
 It's not that there's anything surprising it's not like we're going to show you something you're like oh my gosh I didn't realize that.
 I never knew that existed it's just oh I didn't realize how much that's affected my decision making.
 You know how much that's affected you know even for him to look at you and go well we know that you have struggles because what do we know as a spouse I see my spouse's struggles.
 I bang very close attention to them I live with my spouse I watch you all the time I you know we interact on everything on the planet right.
 And so it's not difficult for me to see what she's struggling with the tough thing is can I see what I'm struggling with can I look at myself so question for you.
 How did that the experience of going through next level I've had that serve you in the work that you're doing now.
 Oh my goodness so for me to go through next level of life now I'm leading women who have abortion in their past and and you know we can pinpoint some things and say hey you know really what's going on there.
 And asking them questions to work through those those things and in particular I'm thinking of someone we have going through now and just that self sabotage and so it's like and so I asked I just straight up asked that question that I did not recognize that in myself of why I was doing that and so that has been a huge way that I can serve other women and also.
 Just talk about you know I went through my next level of life and I went through a couple different other things as well and then when I got to abortion.
 Healing someone's like hey have you thought about that and I just remember saying I'm good I'm good and so you know talking about those levels like hey we can continue to unpeel these.
 And it's good to unpeel those those layers so yeah I just using the tools that I have to be able to even recognize when I'm speaking you know when your people are listening to your story I just remember something that you guys.
 And you know sometimes when you're looking out there's no expressions well I would have totally tanked it but you guys just helped me navigate that so well.
 And like no it's okay.
 And I find that what you mean is look the assumptions the negative self talk the self sabotage everybody hates me right now nobody likes what I'm saying every you know.
 And I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm saying that I'm
 Super idiot and every bit of my worth was tanking and you know I all of a sudden realized they're not judging their processing.
 This is the way that somebody's thinking but if I didn't work through the process of going hold on a second I actually questioned the person which really embarrassed the day I thought of that person and myself which was just stupid but you know I was 26.
 I've done a lot of stupid but it 50 but just that understanding of as soon as I set that reality through my own negative self talk I'm sabotaging me.
 What if that person is and so I don't know if you actually have ever heard this but you may have that one day I felt like the Holy Spirit I was struggling with in my early days.
 You know that judgment in my own mind and I felt like the Holy Spirit said did I give you a message?
 I'm like yeah then go speak the message and let me worry about it.
 There may be only one person out there in this thousand people that I need to hear that and I was like oh yeah definitely of course and then just kind of changed but to the point.
 It sounds easy but that self sabotage that's in your brain. Could you have been doing what you're doing now if you continued all that self sabotage that you had before your event?
 Absolutely not.
 I know that I would have tinked it like I would have just been yeah I there's no way that I I mean maybe but God's grace or whatever but surely you know having those tools just help me recognize and also just my roots and all of those things I'm just recognizing okay.
 You know this is really what's going on here so yeah no that it was so beneficial the timing was perfect.
 Yeah I think like you said there's certain people you would be able to help it's the ones that struggle and push back that we cause you to tank in your worth right.
 And so what is that like now because you're leading your leading younger versions of you right you're leading you're leading like we're talking about your discussions with you and Bruce for the wall goes up really quickly you're leading women that those bricks are being murdered as fast as they possibly can.
 What is that like for you to to help them through the process and not receive the push back that they give you?
 Yeah so when you're walking through that with them you know I just know okay all right we can only for me recognizing okay I can only leave them as far as they're willing to go.
 But also like hey the questions you guys asked I can bring those in and ask those same questions and you know just have them process it and ask the questions and it's a beautiful thing when you see them get it like yes.
 Oh oh that's what's going on here you know and so I love that and you guys you know just did such a great job such a great job I every time I am like struggling with something I can hear drills voice and walking me through it and I'm like oh yeah that's it that's it and so you know I kind of pray and like okay I hope these ladies here.
 But like my voice in their head like walking them through it you know because there's just so much freedom so much freedom recognizing really what what the route is going on and what's happening there so.
 There's nothing there's nothing like that moment there's in its funny because you're you're there now where you already know the struggle before you have the conversation.
 You even you grow into this place of knowing how long the struggle is going to take you know what what direction you're going to have to lead and guide but when that light comes on when when they realize you're not there to hurt them like everybody else that are not everybody else but a lot of people in their past or their present really believe or not.
 I realize what is that can you actually genuinely care about me you're not trying to get something from me nope just want to help you change life and it's from that heart of I've been there you know I know that is such a fantastic moment because now it's like okay now we can accomplish so much more than than we've been doing.
 And something that I want to say is something that was so free in my my next level life is you know with relationships with our families and especially like with my mom there's always you know I have to remember you know what's in someone will spray out around people and I think one of the free moments for me was recognizing like okay if I do get push back from like my mom or whatever.
 Just say it's just her being her like you know what I mean and not taking that on because I think that was a huge thing for me to take take that if that hurt on but it's like oh no she's a hurting person you know and and just seeing her in that way and that was huge for me to.
 I realize that and so when I do work with the ladies to realize if something's spraying out like I don't have to take that on and it's just okay that's what's coming out right now absolutely yeah the understanding one of the prayers so.
 One of the things I say is Lord help me to recognize when somebody else is struggling and not receive it when they point at me so that I can help them.
 That's something I've been saying for a long time because it is so easy especially when it's somebody like a parent you know especially when it's somebody that you know you I do this all day long but every now then there'll be a situation that I'm not expecting or not looking for.
 And I have to have to stop myself and walk through our own tools and go. Is that did I just do something is that my thought did I need to take responsibility here and then you know pretty soon you get to a place of going this person is struggling heavily so don't receive it and don't respond defensively don't help them get to where they need to get to but we're going to talk about guilt and shame when we come back right after this.
 Next level of life is our two day personal discovery experience it's a one on one personalized event where we guide you through a process to help you discover your root system.
 And then you can start to discover what's holding you back from freedom and peace imagine that's what if you could wake up every morning with a clear purpose. What would it look like to have healthier relationships with less conflict.
 And if you once a year five years if you had clarity, purpose and peace probably a big difference for more you stand today now I know it's possible because I've been where you are asking myself is there more there is and there is a better way and it starts with next level life you can go to
 and then you can go to the next level of life.
 If you're filled with things either your relationships are lacking don't keep going through the same motions every single day learn how to move past the things robbing you of peace go to
 Chris the pit of calm slash discover and take the next step. So sorry to put it lightly you do with a lot of conflict you do with conflict and all that you're doing to advocate for life. So that's a big part of what you're doing is you're a huge advocate for life helping people to understand that there's different ways there's different things they could do.
 So as well as an advocate for a life you're an advocate that grace be shown to women who've aborted to child it's not just the hey I'm so glad you made a decision not to do this praise God how a lugia but God doesn't stop caring about people when they make a mistake we know that.
 We've got a fantastic painting which I don't know if you've even noticed that since we've been here of the four women in Jesus lineage out in the lobby there and all four of those women came from you know just crazy backgrounds and yet they're the ones that show up that the only ones the only four women mentioned in his lineage and they all have some
 pretty heavy backgrounds so you advocate for people who've been through this process and have had an abortion aborted a child and live with tremendous guilt and shame that they are dealing with even today like you you share that that's something that you've experienced for a long period of time.
 What do you lean on that helps you stay strong while you're helping other people to experience this and to walk them through this process?
 So something that we just I think it was the last week our last our last session I believe a lot of women say I know God forgave me but I can't forgive myself.
 And so we say can you show us in the word where it says you have to forgive yourself because then you don't need a savior and so you know that has that is a light bulb moment for women and they're like oh and I actually had a lady that said I'm going to prove you wrong and we said please do.
 And she said I can't and you know right right right and so I you know leaning into okay God is who he says he is he is our savior he wants to love us.
 I don't love us but that lavish love and so you know just sharing with a women like hey you know have you repented if you've repented you know what God gives that freely he gives us that forgiveness freely and you know either say you know either believe who he says he is or you don't.
 So then it gets to okay what choice are you going to make here you know and you you've made the choice for a long time to set in that disbelief or the lies so when are we going to move to believing the truth and so you know it's you know it gets down to those choices again and and you know we just we just keep saying you know what God wants you to just choose him to him and so that's really.
 Something that we talk about in our last session was just fantastic because these women were just like okay that is pretty free when we can say okay all right he does forgive us and and also we remind them.
 And we want to get into the word every single day because we want to exchange those lies for truth and you have to do that on a daily basis it is because if you give the enemy an inch he's going to take a mile you know like you give him a little bit he's going to go further than what you want and so this is how we battle it this is what we have to do.
 We could forgive ourselves easily. Then we probably wouldn't make other mistakes that we know if we had that knowledge and that wisdom.
 We're talking about an all-knowing God and all loving God. A God who does want the best for us a God who pursues our heart continuously a God of a God of punishment as well which is not which is incorrectly taught in the Western church is a God who if you keep doing stupid he's going to help you because it's going to draw you.
 We are going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is going to be a God who is
 I'm afraid. Lord help me to understand how did King David get to forgiveness so much easier than I've ever been able to right and the funny thing is is knowing.
 You've already forgiven me for her stuff that I've done wrong, but why do I keep beating myself up over it and it was interesting for me he kept pushing me right back to seeing how much David knew that man's opinion didn't matter God's it.
 And so for him and this is I think another thing that we do so often is a lot of those lies in that negative self-talk is us beating ourselves up over I'm not as good as serenic it's I'm not as good as Bruce is I'm not as good as you know my cousin my my I'm a horrible person comparing myself to a lot of other people and forgiveness becomes almost impossible because it's nothing but comparison constant negative self-talk.
 Now when we look at King David life there's a lot of consequences a lot of stuff right but what we see is somebody who was so focused on God being the one who needs to forgive.
 That he found it so much faster and so much quicker and was able to have a much better relationship which goes to what you were saying to the second part of that answer which is the sooner I focus on that relationship with God.
 The less I focus on my guilt and shame if I can get rid of the negative self-talk in the lies and I can find the truth.
 We hope every time we do the lies and the truth through the next level of life the truth's always point to God.
 They don't point to my truth they don't point to man's truth they point to God and the sooner I can get those truths in my life all of a sudden I start changing the way that I talk to myself the Jew experience that in your process.
 Absolutely yes so going through it and Bruce and I will have the conversation where he'll just ask me you know is that true and and you know well and you start going through the process and you're like no it's not the truth.
 I didn't have those tools before and that was so it's so powerful because I actually use that quite a bit during during the week during the day as I'm talking to many people.
 I was like okay wait wait a second you know and just navigating through that and that's like no and then you know before I would have been stuck really stuck on like oh but that's what they're thinking that's what they're in and it's like no that's not it at all and it's just so freeing.
 It was so freeing for me and so I'm so thankful for for those tools.
 One of the things I'll say to people is I'll say if they at least know a little bit about what we do I'll say what is the lie you're telling yourself right now.
 And the funny thing is is that a lot of people will go I'm not telling myself a lie.
 Okay what's the thing you're saying in your head well that I'm just not good enough you know they'll have this it's right there it's a depending upon who it is I'll say what's the lie you're telling yourself for I'll say what's the negative thing you're saying to yourself right now.
 And it's amazing depending upon who you know shifting it up you'll see that everybody will come up with something.
 Well I just don't like how I handle that right just I just don't feel good enough in that well you know I think that people are mad at me either well I think got and it's always that you know that that it pulls out that negative self sabotage.
 So I big portion of what you've been focusing on is finding that worth that worth that identity and what people think and you've kind of been shifting that to get out of that self sabotage and discovering as you share at the beginning of the show that you worth.
 And I think the way I've grown is just understanding who I am as a daughter and understanding just how much I'm.
 Yes yes and how much he just truly loves me and you know also having the tools that you guys gave me of understanding you know I think understanding like where my parents came from and where their parents came from and just recognizing like hey okay.
 We came from this line of stuff but it kind of ends here you know and just recognizing that like hey you know I have the choice to do things differently and I have the choice to say hey this is this is what I'm going to do different in my life and and just shift.
 So that I can walk in that that freedom and that healing so I think that with huge for me. I love it the book is called she found his grace and as we're discussing that's literally what what we're talking about right now you discovered is grace you discovered.
 You know that he cares and he loves about you so much and that he's been pursuing you even when you weren't right and this process he never stops pursuing our hearts he never stops.
 So I'm probably going to step on some toes here. But our job as Christ followers is not to look perfect our job is not to look like we've got it all together our job we have a business here where we help people.
 Get through the junk and find the things that are holding them back and all those things when other people out they're trying to help people make it look better and close it up and all that kind of stuff listen life is messy life is there's a whole lot of crap that happens.
 And so one of the things that's frustrating is sometimes those of us that are Christ followers sometimes there are churches that they would absolutely turn away somebody that was in your situation or we're definitely would not want to talk about it or could not talk about it.
 And something that you've shared and that we see is that they don't know how to they don't have the conversations. They don't know how to you know to talk to somebody like that.
 So for the person who's out there going well.
 I tried or I would like to try or I feel like I'm I feel like I'm I want to get help but I feel like I'm just rejected or judged or shamed. What do you say to that person?
 So what I found with lady the ladies that have abortion in their past and if they they do share and they're hit with someone that is just really angry or not kind.
 I always tell them to just kind of look you know think okay are they struggling with not being able to get pregnant or a miscarriage in their past.
 And so we want to really recognize that and we're going to just love them anyway and show that grace because there's some hurt stuff.
 But as far as you know the rest of the church you know I have post a board of women that say I really wish our church would talk about this and that there is healing and hope because we feel like it's pretty hopeless.
 That's where we're at then we've missed the whole message we've missed the whole ministry and that is so common and I you know I birth that I talk about this all the time.
 The Catholic church does fantastic fantastic the Protestant church.
 They've missed the boat completely and we have a lot of walking wounded in our church and we can we can do better and so that's why it's such a blessing to us to be able to share that hey there is hope there's healing and you know what Jesus just wants to give it to you and he wants to give it freely and so that's been such a blessing for us to be able to do this work.
 We're speaking about this in general terms I mean not everybody is this way right there's some fantastic but you had a fantastic pastor there's some amazing folks out there.
 The the issue what we're speaking to is not the goal isn't to slam the church.
 The goal is to say there are people who don't know how to have this conversation which praise God you've written this book right this is a great first step for somebody to actually learn what it's like.
 But so many people like even the things that you just mentioned they're if I'm judging you because of a mistake that you have in your past and even a big one something that we would you know consider well that's that's a pretty big one right there.
 Do I have struggles do I have sin have I made bad mistakes the person who says no.
 Oh boy man it's it's common you know struggles are common let me promise you that I was not a fact that remember a guy.
 About 20 years ago was sitting we would gone through this fantastic book as a group and this goes well never had anything bad happened.
 In my life I'm like well I one year and one year later he went through a pretty traumatic thing because everybody experiences bad everybody experiences something difficult everybody experiences struggle and many people make really bad decisions and many people don't recognize that a decision they're making in the moment is a really bad.
 We're all wounded hurt screwed up we got problems we have a king of the universe who is our father who knows that understand that the problem is other walking created beings sometimes can't admit that.
 So as we're talking through this it's not the goal isn't to shame.
 No let me kind of back this up a little bit let me shame the leaders.
 I'm going I'm probably going to have a lot of people that are not going to be very happy that's okay send your response to podcast at christlickardal.com.
 If you are a leader in the Christian community and you can't talk to people about this stuff. You're doing the wrong thing you need to get some instruction you need to get some you need to read she found his grace.
 I need to come through something that teaches you to do that because there's to it's way more important to help the people that are really hurting than to keep giving people good hopeful messages every week that aren't struggling in that moment.
 Let's reach those folks out our struggling and there's so many women you know we like I say we've actually had praise God a lot of women and men that have been through right that have been through struggles like this that have had abortions that you know have had addictions all kind we've helped everything.
 We've helped the Bruce who let their great life fantastic to discover to sirena right to way worse that they've experienced in their lives.
 And the key is it's not a matter of sitting here going all sirena you have that in your past it's a hey you got that in your past let's show you how that's affecting every decision you're making now so that you can make better decisions today.
 Not sitting in judgment we always say this is a no judgment zone not sitting in judgment not sitting here's a deal if I judge you on any decision that you've made.
 Then I'm actually struggling with my own worth because I'm not recognizing all the stupid that I've done right so being able to get to that place I love what you just shared there about helping women to recognize if you see somebody else who struggling.
 If you know I didn't even thought about that you know if they're trying to get help and some gal is pissed at them because you know they had a miscarriage or they can't get pregnant.
 Believe it or not it's their struggle it's their worth struggle that they're experiencing so.
 And they don't receive it but be have a heart for what that person because you just never know what somebody else is experiencing.
 Fear is a big thing.
 Fear is a big thing that's the reason why we're talking about these pieces right here is that hey listen there's a lot of folks that are listening to this right now that.
 Have never told anybody what they've gone through I don't know how many folks out of come through next to the life that go nobody knows this and people know we're not going to we don't talk to anybody about this stuff.
 I've never shared this thing with somebody I've never talked about this and the major reason is that fear sign you know everybody is struggling you know if you've got something in your past or you're experiencing something right now.
 They have to deal with that fear and and try to manage it so what have you learned that helps you manage the fear side or help helps you to lead other people to manage the fear.
 So the fear side of it you know because I think of all aspects I think you know we have women that are in the church that are like oh I am facing unplanned pregnancy I'm I'm I'm married what is the church going to say so we say women go from.
 The church pew to the abortion clinic because of the fear and that is one and four women in our church really one and four so you know it's because of the fear of how people inside the church will respond.
 Yes absolutely.
 So so we have that we have that fear base and also.
 People listen.
 If you are sitting on a pew in your life is okay right now start looking around.
 That's wow that just hit me so hard.
 Wow I didn't.
 Sorry.
 No I'm not sorry.
 That needs to hit us that needs to hit that needs to land.
 What are we doing to look around at the person who's struggling and realizing that their fear is my judgment and because of the fear of my judgment.
 One and four of them is going to go and the life because they're afraid of how I'm going to respond.
 We have to do better.
 We have to care.
 We have to know.
 We have to reach out.
 We have to.
 I don't think I've ever been this type of with my words.
 Let me what my eyes here.
 Alright.
 People we have to do better.
 We have to start looking around and trying to discover what somebody is experiencing and it doesn't mean that you have to go in and dig out.
 Share all your crap with me here on a few and I see you one hour a week.
 But what happened if people realize that?
 Well just being prepared as a church to say hey you know we want you to know we want you to know hey we all fall short of the glory of the Lord and you can bring this or even parents.
 Oh don't get me started on the teenage girls that reach out to me who say you know what my mom says I have to go to the clinic because I'm an embarrassment to the family and I'm like tell them to stop worrying about what the Jones of the have to say because at the end of the day they don't have to live with what's what's coming.
 What's coming.
 The trauma and all of that and so you know if I have a parent listening and how you're going to get me fired up.
 Okay.
 Because we've had folks come through next level life that literally have had the parent go you will do this and you know 20 years later they're sitting in the chair upstairs going.
 It's been 20 years.
 It's affected me.
 Right.
 Yes.
 And the parent moves on.
 I'm sure they're still guilt that's there but it's not the same as the one who's gone through it.
 Right.
 We're going to get on some soapbox.
 I know.
 I know.
 I know.
 Thank you for letting me do that.
 Oh my god.
 Absolutely.
 Yeah.
 So you know I just you know I want parents I want parents to know hey you know what if you're obviously we're not saying that we can don't that you know we we know.
 I'm going to back up for for Bruce and I so we had an unplanned pregnancy at 16.
 I tell you what we had a church family that was awesome.
 A youth group that threw us a baby shower.
 But they also talked about a talk to us and said hey you guys got to stop doing what you're doing.
 You guys are not married.
 That is not right.
 So they held our feet to the fire as well.
 Exactly.
 And so you know I think people need to recognize that in the church they okay all right you know what what you did was not okay.
 But you know what we're going to walk alongside of you and there's you know there's a redemption story here.
 So so definitely like the church needs to recognize that that's something a message that they don't give you know they but Jesus does.
 Jesus does exactly Jesus gives that message.
 And so you know like I said there's just all these different fear all these what ifs and it's like you know just walking alongside these women and saying okay you know I have women that will say you know what my boyfriend or my husband.
 He's going to leave me and I'm like okay let him go let him go let him go.
 I have a feeling he might come back but hey or your mom who's saying this is terrible we and tell she sees this little one it's going to change her perspective it's going to change her life.
 I said so stick it out and let's just keep walking this out and I know that you're scared right now and if anybody's telling you you can't do X, Y and Z they've never tried it and so don't let them tell you you can't do this.
 And so I think you know the church just empowering women and also men to just say you know what God values life so much he values it so why are we not giving that message of like God values life so we're just going to do this.
 So it's so powerful when you look at when Jesus came up on the woman at the well it's amazing if you back up a couple of scriptures.
 What you see is Jesus sends the disciples into town for food he knows where he's going he know who who's going to walk upon he's in Samaria.
 Coming up to somebody who knows scripture you know they had a different to knock at that time and the northern kingdom I'm probably giving away to much information that doesn't matter.
 But when Jesus walks up there he knows what she's experiencing he asks for water from her this is women.
 I want you to get this.
 So first off a person's spit was considered unclean.
 Jesus asked for water he doesn't have anything to drink out of which means that he's taking water from her.
 Bag or whatever the thing that whatever she was using at the time of drink from which means that he is already creating himself to be unclean by the thing that he's getting water from.
 And he's accepting that from her.
 You can see it you know there's a reason he sent 12 guys away because a 13 guys would have come up on that well she would have left.
 I mean literally she wasn't supposed to be there even with the one guy back in those days.
 But there's no way and they would have judged the living daylights out of her in that moment.
 And Jesus reaches out and he says,
 I know what you're doing I know what you've been doing and this is the thing that a lot of people again more emails are coming this way.
 Jesus was never lenient. He was graceful. He was merciful. He was never lenient.
 I know what you're doing. You've been married to or you've been with five different men in the one year with now you're not married to.
 Let me be your living water. She understood what that meant. She understood the priest's ceremony about living water.
 She understood the that meant about forgiveness. She understood those things.
 But then he says to her going to no more. You have a loving God who says, turn to me.
 Make me your living water. Don't be worried about people's judgment. Don't be worried. Don't be fearful of somebody who's going to tell you better do this or don't be don't think along those lines.
 Focus on what God has for you because he's the one who's going to love you.
 Not just for the next year. Not for the next 10, 20 years but for eternity.
 So make those decisions to make him your living water. But do understand you do have to make smart choices from that point forward.
 It doesn't it's you know, grace is not a license to send grace is something that helps you to understand a graceful God and make great decisions from there.
 Whew girl. I don't even know where we're going from here.
 Oh, that's good stuff. Let's see. You've had a chance you've been doing this for years now.
 Do you struggle with the negative self talk to lies? Do you struggle with the worth issues? How do you deal with that?
 So sometimes they try to creep in and I'm like I said, I'm thankful that I came through next level of life to have the tools that I needed because we pulled those out even Bruce.
 A couple weeks ago just really struggling with something and Bruce just pulled out my next level of forms or whatever you call the sheets.
 Yeah, the sheets and he's like, hey, and we started walking through it and I was like, oh yeah, that's what I'm going through.
 And so you know, it's not a one and done like you keep going back to those tools and so that's that's what's so powerful of walking through that and knowing how to navigate through that.
 So I mean, yeah, so that that is a huge, huge help in in what I do and how I'm able to help other women and the men that walk through just kind of see like, hey, this is what's going on, you know,
 or have them, you know, give them a question and have them navigate it.
 So I hope everybody listening is hearing, you know, everything that we're saying, you are somebody who is putting your life out into the public.
 Hey, listen, I have been there. I've had a tragic thing happen to me. I've made bad decisions. I've struggled. You know, this is this is what we try to do is help people, right?
 And you found grace, you found mercy, you found forgiveness, but more than anything you found the right love of God, not not a lot of times we're preaching this loving God that doesn't have any problems with anything you do and that is not the God that we know.
 But I think probably one of the biggest things you have is hope correct me from wrong.
 You are absolutely correct. What does life look like now after you've walked through this worse journey?
 So for me, you know, just like I said before, just being in feeling pretty hopeless, feeling like, man, I'm always going to be in this pit.
 I don't know how to get out. You know, it's always going to be this struggle. I know there's no way that I would be leading teams. There's no way that I would have the ministry that I have if I had not walked through the healing journey.
 I know, I mean, I say that God can do whatever he wants, but I tell you what, just having walking through your healing journey and just being able to recognize stuff.
 That is just been so beneficial and helping me lead other women to say, hey, there's freedom. There's freedom. There's hope.
 We don't have to stay in that pit unless we choose to set in it. But I don't know about you, but I'm not, I'm not choosing to set in that anymore because that was miserable.
 That was miserable. And so just, I don't know, we're just, I know, Bruce and I are just having a ball serving in this way.
 I mean, it's hard. It is a hard ministry. It's probably the hardest ministry I've ever done.
 No doubt. But you know what, we get to see God's stories and so many God's stories. And it's not just, you know, we're from Indiana.
 And we look at each other and we're like, oh my goodness, we're from Indiana. And we just had a baby save in Kenya, Africa.
 You know, and it's just like, we get to do that. We get to do that. And so, you know, I'm just so thankful that we have, I have freedom.
 You know, I know where my worth comes from. I know that I'm forgiven. I know I've been set free.
 I know that God has given me a message to impact the world. And I, I'm just grateful for that. I'm so grateful.
 Well, it's an honor to have you on the show. It is an absolute honor that you trust that us to even be a part and allow us to work through that.
 What I want people to hear is, I want to repeat what you just said,
 "Getting the freedom, getting the tools, getting understanding your worth and God didn't just free you up."
 So people don't miss this. Freedom is fantastic. It's amazing. If it stops right there, praise God, Hallelujah, that's awesome. Great enjoy your life.
 But it didn't stop there. And, man, I want the second time crying on a show, goodness, because really what just went through my mind is the folks that have gone through what you've gone through upstairs,
 and that have experienced not just the freedom but turning it back around into helping other people. And so, I will say, I love that you're using what you've learned to change the lives of other people,
 that there's a baby that's being saved in Kenya. And that's just one of an incredible number of stories that you're helping people with,
 that you're not, you didn't get your life freed up so that you can go look good in front of everybody who, you know, just as up on Sunday.
 Instead, you got freedom because you needed freedom, and you needed to know where your worth came from. And then now, you're dragging your stuff out into the open to go, hey,
 anybody, I was thinking like Paul would call would like when he went to the market in Athens, I believe it was. And he's like,
 "Anybody want to hear about this stuff come on over and then the people that just totally disagree, you guys take off everybody else come with me.
 All of y'all who can't talk about this stuff and you're too hoodie-todied and, you know, this is inappropriate for you. Y'all go somewhere else and come back and see us when you've had enough bad stuff happen in your life.
 Everybody else who's experienced the junk, the pain, the hopelessness, one of the stories I've shared for probably 30 years, and I love sharing it at events,
 is the guy who falls in the well or the pit. And he falls in this well and he's down there and he's like, "Oh, crap, I can't get out. There's no land of there's no nothing."
 And a priest walks by and he says, "Father, I'm stuck down in this well, help me out." And he writes a prayer on a piece of paper and tosses it down and he's like, "I don't know how that's going to help me. I wrote what it done better."
 And then a doctor walks by and he's like, "Doc, I'm stuck in this well." And he writes a prescription and he throws it down and he's like, "What in the world is going on?"
 And then a buddy walks by and he goes, "Hey man, I'm stuck down here, help me out in the friend jumps in the well." Because well wasn't that stupid.
 Now we're both stuck in the well and he goes, "Yeah, I know." But I've been down here before and another way out.
 You've been in the well. You've been through everything that you've been through. You could have chosen a life to gloss up life and keep on walking by.
 You know, let everybody know, "Well life is great now, it's fancy now." And instead you're jumping in the well and helping people out of the well.
 So I'm so proud of you. Goodness gracious woman, nobody's ever made me cry on my own shelf.
 Oh man, oh man. Oh hell. You know something that I want to touch on for a second is that how many of us we complain about the mass now.
 But how many of us have been wearing a mass for a long time. And you know the thing is it's like, "I just kind of giggle because I'm like, how many of us show up and we're all polished up."
 And you know, and we're this and we're that and then you know these mass show up and they're ticked off about it.
 And like you've been wearing a mass for a long time. And you know, like, "Okay, if we're going to work on removing that mass,
 let's really work on removing that mass and really get into this stuff." And you know, so we can help people.
 And that's what I tell the ladies that I work with. Like, "Hey, we get to go and help other people."
 And you know, Bruce and I are transparent because we just, "Life is messy. I'm not going to pretend that things are polished up because you know what?
 There's hard stuff, but God redeems it and he uses it."
 Perhaps it's thinking, literally. Once again, she found his grace as the name of the books or in the dynx and Bruce Dykes and in the studio,
 so proud of you. Such a good guy. Thank you for supporting your wife and these efforts and being behind her.
 And I know you are out there as well, helping out.
 But sharing her message and sharing her life and facing those that push against and those that receive. I'm so proud of you.
 I'm so proud of you. Great job. Great job for doing this. I'm so honored that you're on the show.
 And that you're here with us today. So here's what I want you to do. I want you to tell us how we get more of you.
 There's a lot of, a lot of gals that have dealt with this. How did they get help from what you, what you guys are doing right now?
 So if there's someone with abortion in their past, they can go to serenadeix.com.
 We actually have community groups, which we absolutely love. We absolutely love our community groups.
 It's a support group that we're able to build friendships up with. And we do once a month zoom calls.
 And then we also walk through unpacking and getting that freedom and that healing.
 And so it's a protected group. I want people to know that. It's absolutely locked down.
 So you can email us and then we do a screening process to protect the community group.
 And so serenadeix.com. We have a she found his grace.
 Facebook page. They can go to Instagram. Those are the areas that you can find us.
 Send us messages. We love if you just need to tell one person your story.
 You know what? It stays with us. You can share it. And it stays with us.
 We love to get you plugged in though because that's the beautiful part of being actually plugged into the community.
 And walking through this process. Absolutely.
 We will put all of this information in the show notes. And I believe if you're on an iPhone,
 you can push my head up. I don't know if it still works that way.
 But we'll have all these links and everything in there. How about the book? How do we get she found this grace?
 So you can either get that from our website serenadeix.com or Amazon, Barnes and Noble's, any Christian book stores.
 Just go online, search it and it'll come up and order it.
 Fantastic. Well, thank you again.
 I appreciate it. I appreciate it. Well, folks.
 Hopefully this is helped you today.
 Listen, you may not have experienced anything even like an abortion.
 But you've experienced junk. You've experienced pain and you've experienced.
 I probably everybody listening to the show has experienced hopelessness.
 You've experienced it. If your walk is one of worrying about whatever people think, trust me,
 it's just going to bring more pain.
 Get somewhere where people can help you. Get somewhere where people can help you to get the tools.
 Get over this stuff. Put this junk behind you so that you can walk and freedom.
 And like Serena, turn around and use that instead of walking in a polished freedom.
 Hey, look at me. My life is better. Use it. Turn around and help somebody else.
 Help somebody else when you've gotten to a place. Don't try and do it until you fix it.
 Trust me that won't work. That will not work. Get yourself on a place where you have the tools and you can actually walk daily without having to worry about this stuff.
 Whew, alright. Well, as always, take this information. Use this in your leadership.
 Folks, goodness. Like I said about the people running on the pews, leaders.
 I'm not asking you to dig deep and get personal with the people that are sitting in your office chairs.
 Pay attention. Use this to change your leadership. Business owners use this to change your business. Everybody else uses the change your life.
 Enjoy on a Sunday next episode.
 [Music]