 Welcome to the show folks. Today we've got a special guest in a personal friend of mine for many years now.
 Nashville's own Michael Hyatt is joining us right out to this.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show where we discuss leadership and life and discover that business is what you do not who you are.
 Hey folks, we have a great show today. We have gotten Mike Hyatt the founder and chairman of Michael Hyatt and company, which helps leaders get the focus they need to win at work and succeed at life.
 Michael is also the creator of the full focus planner and a New York Times best seller and a Wall Street Journal best seller and a USA today best seller of several books including free to focus your best year ever living forward and platform.
 And as latest book is entitled to win at work and succeed at life, five principles to free yourself from the cult of overwork.
 That is what's coming up on the show right out to this.
 Hey leaders, what is this past year taught you? For many of you, the events of 2020 opened your eyes to core challenges and struggles that are deep within your business.
 I'm sure we can all agree that business as usual just won't cut it this year.
 But as a leader in a business owner, you may not know where to go from here.
 So I'm here to tell you that it's time to make a change.
 As a leader, it's time to pour into your business and your team by learning and implementing new core skills that will make an immediate impact.
 It's time to sign up for the next level leadership live event this April.
 This event is tailor made for small business owners and leaders just like you helping you to move forward even in the climate of fear and uncertainty.
 This is not a positive thinking session, but a strategic thinking workshop, chalk full of insightful teaching and impactful learnings.
 It's going to equip you to return to your business and your team ready to implement and immediately impact their growth and stability.
 Go to crsacrtle.com/liveofent or text live event one word to the number four four two two two two for more information and to get your tickets.
 Again, that's crsacrtle.com/liveofent.
 It's time to change your business and your leadership for the better.
 Don't miss it.
 Our folks, we are back and we're joined by Michael Heit.
 Mike, welcome to the show. Good to have you back on.
 Thanks Chris. Good to be with you. Good to see you.
 I know it's been a while. I usually used to see you all the time down there at Frothy Monkey.
 We moved away a little bit, but you still go down there and hang out.
 I know I see you and Megan down there from time to time.
 Yeah, I've been downtown Franklin.
 So you know everything's within walking distance for me.
 I'm just, you know, a few blocks off the square.
 So yeah, Frothy Monkey, Starbucks, all that stuff.
 Oh, that's so good. So good to have you back on the show.
 You've got a lot going on.
 I want to jump into your latest book, but you've got some exciting news and something that for me,
 I think, is just the coolest thing.
 You've recently installed your daughter, Megan, as the CEO of the company.
 What's going on there?
 Yeah, so about three years ago, we were at an all-team retreat.
 And we had the spouses with us.
 And we've got about 50 employees now, about that time we had about 30.
 And one of the wives of one of our employees stood up and said,
 "Hey, what happens if something happens to you?"
 Because this company is pretty much built on your brand.
 And I didn't have a very good answer to that question.
 But boy, did I dig in in the months following that?
 So we came back, I guess I was about four years ago, so we came back the next year at our all-team retreat.
 And we said to everybody, "Okay, here's the plan.
 We're going to make Megan the CEO of Michael Heiden Company.
 She was the CEO of the time. And we're going to do that on January 2, 2022.
 So we were all working methodically toward that.
 You're always making sure that you got training and everything she did training.
 Because I was really going to hand off the rainstorm.
 Well, last summer I was on my sabbatical.
 I take a month long sabbatical every summer.
 And I was on a sabbatical.
 And I thought, "Why am I waiting so long? She's ready now."
 And so I talked to her, "Well, I got back from my sabbatical."
 And I said, "Hey, how about we accelerate the schedule and do this January the second 2021?"
 She said, "Yeah, I'm in."
 So we did it.
 And it's been awesome.
 So I'm now the chairman, which means that I have no operational responsibility.
 I'm writing, I'm speaking, I'm creating content.
 But Chris, I'm only working three days a week.
 Oh, my gosh.
 And it's not like you've not put in your time.
 I mean, obviously running Thomas Nelson, running Michael Hyden company.
 You've had a lot of time of being in that role, but my gosh, it's got to be a freeing.
 I mean, you're working three days a week.
 So that's pretty fantastic.
 But also the prideful moment of somebody you've been raising for so many years that's stepping into this fantastic leadership role.
 I mean, what is that like?
 Oh, my gosh.
 I could not be more thrilled.
 But I mean, Megan and our, so of course, we've been working together since she was about 17.
 By the way, I have five dollars.
 But she started working with me in some capacity when she was about 17.
 We did a bunch of things together on and off.
 But she's a kind of person, much like my wife, Gail,
 to my been married for 42 years.
 But Megan can kind of complete my sentence.
 She knows what I'm thinking.
 She knows kind of my philosophy, my point of view.
 And she just, she just awesome.
 My youngest daughter, Marissa also works in the company.
 She's a marketing director for our full focus planner brand.
 But it's just, you know, when you got good family relationships, family and business could work well.
 If you're a relationship, it's not good.
 It's a nightmare.
 Thank you.
 That's awesome, brother.
 That is so cool.
 I'll love it.
 And again, like I say, when I saw the email come out that she guys were moving in a direction.
 I mean, it was like, well, that's an old brainer.
 I mean, Megan's just a rock star anyways.
 But that is so cool.
 Well, today we are talking, we've been talking lately on the show on the Chris of Curtis show about failure and learning from failures.
 You've got a fantastic new book out that we want to hit, which is when it work and succeed at life, the five principles to free yourself from the cult of overwork, which I love.
 You just mentioned something that's still to this day.
 You've been doing this for so long.
 And I still kick myself in the bottom like every year Mike takes a month off and goes on sabbatical.
 Look, Curtis, you got to get out there and do it.
 I mean, it's just it's great.
 And the key is is that you've obviously you've worked the team and the company into a place where you can step away from month from month.
 When we went to Israel, I took my leadership team to Israel for a couple of weeks.
 We got four total emails between us.
 And it was great that we could step away and come back.
 And it was funny when we came back.
 So many clients like how many fires did you put out and it's like, literally none.
 Like, what are you talking about? And it's like, well, if you do this stuff, we teach trust me, you could do this.
 But maybe I want to be able to tell you, I need to just say, you know what, I'm taking that one month.
 Because I know the moment I do it, I'm going to go, yep, this is going to be a yearly thing.
 So.
 Cool.
 Well, Chris, so check this out.
 So not only do I take a month off, but one of the benefits that we give to our employees is they get a month off paid every three years.
 And and we tell them, look, we don't want to hear from you.
 We're not going to send you anything.
 We're not going to bug you.
 Whatever happens happens, we'll take care of it.
 But we let you to be free so that you could really experience
 Rejuvenation to be refreshed and come back and be the best version of yourself.
 And that's that's better.
 Most of the pocket are benefit.
 Oh, I love it.
 I love it.
 I love it.
 Well, again, today we're talking about learning from failures.
 I know you've never met any failures.
 No, no, no, no.
 You've made you made it.
 You made it.
 Yes, that's that's that's literally what I say.
 This business that we have here is literally from failures.
 We've just learned, you know, got us bent so gracious to teach us how to overcome the failures.
 And what we do with those and then how do we use that to teach other people and train other people.
 But you've made some bad decisions in life, right?
 I have.
 Can I tell you about one?
 Please.
 So this one, I so I open the book with this one.
 And so about 20 years ago, I was given responsibility for one of Thomas Nelson publishers, 14 book publishing divisions.
 So I got one division, Nelson books, and it turns out after I got into the job, I didn't know this before I accepted the job.
 That that division was dead last in every significant financial metric.
 It basically was not only growing.
 It was shrinking.
 It was the least profit.
 Well, in fact, the previous year had lost money.
 Company morale was, or the divisional morale was terrible.
 It was just awesome.
 And I realized I couldn't screw it up.
 You know, I could only make it better.
 So that was the good news.
 But the CEO said, how long is it going to take you to turn this division around?
 So I thought about it for a little bit.
 And I thought, I said, you know, I think it's going to take three years.
 And he said, well, it's kind of what I was thinking.
 So, you know, have at it.
 So I went back to the team, got them all fired up about the vision.
 We rolled up our sleeves.
 We worked hard Chris.
 I was working 70 to 80 hours a week.
 No weekends or barely any weekends.
 I'd even work on my vacations all that stuff.
 But not in three years.
 But in a year and a half, we went from 14 to number one.
 Fastest growing division, most profitable division, best company morale.
 You know, just everything was great.
 Everybody got huge bonuses.
 I got the biggest bonus I'd ever got in my life, which was more than my annual salary.
 So this is where it gets interesting.
 So I'm thinking of myself, Gail is going to be a weighted.
 I can't wait to get home and actually show her the check.
 So I drive home, I bounce into the den.
 I show that, you know, that check tour, Tata, what do you think?
 And she just seemed a little less enthusiastic than I thought she should be.
 And she looked at me and she said, babe, we need to talk.
 So I took a deep breath.
 I knew this, you know, a great talk.
 And we went to the den and we said, "And her eyes, welled up with tears."
 And she said, "You know, I love you."
 And I appreciate so much everything you do for our family.
 But she said, "You're never at home."
 And honestly, your five daughters need you.
 Now more than ever.
 Well, news she was right.
 I kind of wanted to defend myself.
 But news she was right. So I just kept listening.
 And so she said, "You know, even when you are home, you're not really here."
 You know, you're constantly on your devices and you're just not present with us.
 And she said, "The worst part at this point she choked up and started crying."
 She said, "Unscredible."
 I feel like a single mom.
 And Chris, that was a gut kick.
 Because I thought I had reached the pinnacle of success.
 But what I discovered was it was a false summit.
 Yeah.
 I think that is something especially for us men.
 Right? So let me speak to the men right now.
 We put so much identity and we put so much worse in a number in a success in man's eyes.
 Did I build the division high enough?
 Did I make enough money?
 Did I do enough of my friends?
 Think I'm highly successful?
 And when we look at it through the eyes of God, God saying that you're never going to get to heaven.
 And I'm going to go great job on your bottom line.
 Well done.
 I'm so impressed.
 I'm so happy.
 Your family's falling apart.
 But man, you really kicked it in the gear there.
 And I think for men it's so difficult for us to understand that there are so many spouses out there that are going...
 I just like Gale said, I appreciate what you do.
 But that's not your greatest worth to this family.
 You bringing in a big check isn't your greatest worth.
 It's the health of your family.
 It's your leadership on raising five daughters who look to you as the most important male in their lives.
 And now look at where we are.
 Megan's taking over the company.
 You've got obviously things have turned around.
 You've done something right.
 You made right decisions in it.
 Yeah.
 And it was not easy because, honestly, I felt like I was faced with what we call in the book, the impossible choice.
 You know, you can win at work or you can succeed at life.
 You can't do both pick one.
 And sadly today Chris, we have a lot of celebrity entrepreneurs who are advocating for working 80 to a lot of musks as a...
 ...hunter to hours a week to get ahead.
 If you want to make a debt in the universe, that's what it requires.
 And meanwhile, I think sometimes we don't ask the hard questions about these people that we're following.
 And not to judge him, but just the facts are, it's all public.
 You know, a lot of musks have been through two marriages.
 He's got five kids that don't talk to him by his own admission.
 You know, his whole life is his work.
 And I think that some people think, well, you know, if I'm faced with this impossible choice, I'm just going to hustle harder.
 You know, I'm going to work hard.
 And I'm going to get to the place where I can relax and really get my health and my family and all the other things, the attention they deserve.
 The other alternative is what we call in the book, the ambition break.
 You know, I'll just throw it back in my professional ambition.
 I'll give attention to my personal priorities.
 But the problem is that that's a bitter pill to swallow for people that have a lot of ambition.
 And really feel like it got something when it contributed to the world.
 But the good news is, and this is what I've really spent the last 18 years focused on, is trying to develop a system, a third option that allows you to win at work and succeed alive.
 So you don't have to throttle back your professional ambition, but you also don't sacrifice your personal priorities on the ambition.
 You know, the alter of your ambition.
 Yeah, absolutely.
 I got to say that I've experienced that myself.
 We go all the way back to, I think when we pitched, it was either financial piece revisited or totally makeover, back in the office.
 We let it with funky jackets.
 We had those remote control car.
 We did this big ol' sales pitch.
 That was a low time ago.
 And there was a 10 year span of my life that I put my head down and just went ballistic.
 Because so much of what I thought was, this is what success is.
 This is what a successful guy does.
 And men, I tell you what, there, you know, just as you've learned, I mean, there is a regret.
 There, you cannot look at the mistake and look at the fix and just regret the mistake.
 You got to be proud that God brought you to a place where Gale said, "Hey, we need to have a discussion."
 Because it shifted you into greater priority.
 But it still doesn't change the fact that you can look back and go, "Man, I regret the loss."
 You know, I look back at the time that I put my head down.
 And so it has been ridiculous over this last seven eight years where this hustle mantra has been screened from the mountain tops.
 And I've been turning a lot of our clients for the longest time.
 Like our clients just, "No, hey, it is not the hustle.
 It's not going and losing your life so that you can prove to somebody that you've done something successful when you lose everything else."
 So for me, it's not the hustle. It's the doing it the right way.
 If you do it, it doesn't mean that you don't, you know, the oxes in the ditch, we get the ox out of the ditch.
 If there's something we've got to do for a short period of time, we bust it, but when it becomes every day, you know, all every day, every week, all the time,
 then what happens is you lift your head up and you see all the other things that are paying dearly for it.
 And like you said, you know, there's a lot of people out there who've been chasing this work-life balance.
 And we use the term work-life balance. There's no real true work-life balance.
 It's all different areas have different types of balance and, you know, we focus a lot on will of life on that stuff.
 And some of them have just given up the search. What's keeping them from finding a decent work-life balance?
 You know, one of the things that we talk about in the book, you know, the subtitle says that all five principles could free yourself from the cult of overwork.
 And one of those principles is embracing constraints. Now, I want to tell you what my life was like back in those days at a very granular level.
 So what I would do back when I was running Nelson Books, and I was in that, you know, working 70, 50, 70, 80 hours a week.
 Basically what would happen to me, Chris, is in the afternoon, I would realize that I wasn't going to finish my task list by the end of the day.
 But I would say to myself, that's okay. I'll just go home, eat a quick dinner with the family, pop open my laptop, and continue working.
 And if I have to Friday, you know, I would say to myself, well, I know I didn't finish everything I meant to accomplish this week, but that's okay.
 Because I work on Saturday, and I can work Sunday evening. Or if I go into a vacation, I say, you know, I didn't finish what I needed to before I take this vacation,
 I kind of feel guilty taking it, and it don't really deserve it.
 But I'll just work in the mornings while the family is down at the beach, and I'll accomplish some things that I'll be overproductive during that time.
 Well, I got an executive coach.
 I was Daniel Harkevy with whom I wrote the book, living forward on life planning, and Daniel said to me, he said, look, buddy, he said, I want you to embrace some constraints.
 And I said, well, what do you mean? Because I'm thinking to myself, constraints means no freedom.
 I want the freedom to do what I want, when I want. He said, no, he said, constraints are the ticket to freedom.
 He said, so when are you willing to stop work at the end of the day? Now, this again was 18 years ago.
 So I was just a baby in starting this. So I said to him, I said, well, I can see myself finishing by 6 p.m. each night.
 He said, okay, no opening the laptop, you're closing it up, you're done for the day, right? I said yes.
 And he said, what about the weekends? And I said, well, I'm willing to not work on the weekends. He said, okay,
 great, he said, I'm sure you won't mind if I call gale directly periodically to check in on you.
 That was like, that took accountability to a whole new level.
 Because I've always thought of accountability that he would check in on me occasionally and ask me, how are you doing with your commitments?
 Well, of course, I'm going to spin it to my benefit, right? And so, but calling gale, he got the true story and boy, that kept me really honest.
 But that freed me up because in the middle of the afternoon, you know, pretty sad to say I could do this later in the evening, if I don't get done.
 Now I would say, whoa, 6 o'clock is fast approaching. So if I don't get this done, I got a buckled down and get focused and get this done.
 So, you know, I'm not checking social media, I'm not talking with friends, I'm not getting caught up in fake work or busy work.
 I'm focused on the things that have to get done that really move the needle.
 So that was kind of the constraints for the secret really to making that move forward and being able to have both, you know, we need to at work and succeed in the life.
 I don't remember what the study I need to go back and find this thing. I saw it, gosh, over a decade ago, I think.
 But like when I was back at each trade, I mean, it was a 90 hour week was, that's normal. You just, this is what you do. We're growing, you know, we're growing this business.
 You know, we want to take this thing public. It's just, you know, this is what you do.
 And I remember seeing a study that showed that when a person has a set number of hours, like if an entrepreneur knows he's going to work until 7pm,
 then he actually slows down the process because he knows he's going to work that late.
 But if you put that constraint on, you're working to five, you're working to six, so you're working till four, you don't get a 12 hour day, you get a nine hour day or something like that.
 That amazingly, they get the same amount of work done in that time frame of nine hours that they would 12 because when you know you're doing 12 hours, you slow yourself down because you got 12 hours to get it done.
 Well, so Murphy's law, right? Our down Murphy's law, but Parkinson's law says work expands to the time of law for it.
 There you go.
 Though high-its corollary is work contracts to the time of law to fill up it.
 You will actually make the focus on what's most important. Instead of maybe taking some of those conversations or spending time in email or doing some things that aren't as important, you'll prioritize.
 Man, I've only got this amount of time, get these things done, and they tend to be the most important things.
 We teach with killing the leadership crazy cycle.
 What we teach people is, the sooner you can see what you need to be focused on, the sooner you can delegate the things you shouldn't be focusing on, allowing you to focus on the most important things.
 In the book, you say, "I asked myself, what if I could win at work and succeed at work?"
 It took several years of research, experimentation, and self-discovery, but I'm happy to report.
 I found out that a loose of third option we call it the double win. I want to talk about that double win in just a moment, but first describe the years of research, experimentation, and self-discovery that led up to that.
 Well, it was about 18 years. I tried every possible mechanism to do that, and it's really hard when you're in a corporate culture, even if you're running the freaking company.
 It's hard in a corporate culture that's against that.
 Changing corporate culture is hard. It's possible, but it's hard.
 I was in an environment where everybody had that same old school mindset that we had to work late. Tomas Nelson, we were publicly held when I became the CEO, we sold it to private equity.
 The private equity guys, the guys that were on my board, were guys that were sending me messages at all hours of the day and night expecting a response.
 And Chris, I could remember one point in the great recession. This probably would have been about 2,000 in nine. And we've been slugging it out in the trenches for months just hand to hand combat, just trying to keep the ship afloat.
 So I had to take an education, and I had one scheduled up, and we were going to tell the story of the book, but we were scheduled to go to Colorado to spend a week.
 So we're on the airplane going to Dallas, we're going to change planes, fly onto Denver, then drive up into the mountains. So as we're coming down in Dallas, I get this message on my blackberry at the time.
 And it was from the partner at the private equity firm who said, hey, we need to talk. I know we gave you a approval to go on vacation, but you really need to turn around and come back.
 We need you back at the office, we're going to come in on Monday.
 And I showed that to Gail, and I mean, I just wanted to cry. I was so exhausted. And we needed the time. Gail and I needed the time together, right?
 So I showed it to her, and she said, well, babe, you do whatever you think you need to do. I totally support it.
 And so I just set there for a minute. I thought, nope, I'm not doing it. And so it was a very scary moment in my career.
 I've had a few of these, thankfully not many, but where you kind of have to put all the cards in the middle of table, all the chips in the middle of the table, and kind of bet the farm on it.
 And I didn't know if I was going to get fired or what. But I just said, I said to this manager, I said,
 nope, I said, you guys approved this. I needed my family needs it, and I'm going. I said, I've already alerted the staff.
 They'll take care of you when you arrive on Monday, and I'll check in with you when I get back.
 And I turned off my block right, and I did not turn that thing on for the interview.
 Now, here was the kicker. So I get back to the office. Of course, I've got a plan in the recesses of my mind, even during my vacation.
 Sure, killed my brother. Do I still have a job?
 I don't sell the job. What's going to happen? So I walk into my CFO's office when I get back.
 And I say, hey, you know, about that thing about, you know, the board coming in this last Monday, what was up?
 And he said, he said, dude, that totally kind of handled by phone. It was nothing.
 They were just asking some information. He said, you didn't miss a thing.
 So I would have skuttled my entire vacation for nothing.
 But here's what it illustrates. We have to take a stand for ourselves.
 And sometimes that's going to involve making courageous decisions, uncomfortable decisions.
 And even when I shortened my, you know, work week or work day to 6 p.m.
 That's going to leave from 9 to 6 p.m. That took a little bit of courage because I'm thinking to myself, you know, I'm a, any grand,
 three if that means anything. So I care what people think about me.
 So you know, I'm thinking, what is, what is my employees going to think if I'm leaving it 6 p.m.
 And I got people down the hall that I work until 7 or 8.
 But then I realized that as a leader, I'm going to replicate myself in the lives of those I'm leading.
 And if I can't lead myself, I'm not worthy of leading anybody else.
 And my life, my decisions, maybe just the spark people need to make a courageous decision for themselves.
 Yeah. And so, you know, we just kind of started a revolution there.
 It wasn't really fully realized, Chris, until I started Michael Hyden company because, you know, then I had, you know, total control.
 And I baked in for the beginning, thankfully, the very first year I was in business.
 I only been in business for a few months. And I decided every year I'm going to take a 1 month sabbatical because I don't want to create a business that is so dependent upon me that it can't run without me.
 And I want to be smart enough, created enough to try to invent a business that could work without my direct involvement for at least 1 month a year.
 You know, I've never asked you what you do on that sabbatical. Is that something you share?
 Yeah. It's always different. It first of all, it's no work.
 You know, so there's no work like the summer before the pandemic, we stayed home last year because the pandemic.
 But the summer before we went to Jackson, Wyoming, and I'm a big trout fisherman, fly fish.
 And my wife has gotten into it.
 And so we spent probably every other day out on the river out on the snake river fishing.
 Either in Wyoming or in the north part of that in Idaho.
 And that was great. You know, I, that was the year that I really got serious about Native American flute playing.
 And so I met with some flute makers and teachers and so forth. And so yeah, it's usually, it's usually hobby related.
 It's something that I want to learn or want to get grown, grown in last summer because I was home.
 I got certified in a neuroleguistic programming. And it was just completely different diversion from normal work.
 And that's what I like it to be. We've gone to Europe a couple different times and just spent four weeks over there.
 And the first week is always tough.
 You know, you kind of decompressing. And if I tell you to the second, second week you start to let go.
 And then by the fourth week, by the end of the fourth week you're ready to come back.
 But it's like the best thing ever. I'd really encourage you to do that.
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Now it's, it's definitely, when we're done with this here, that's going to be something I start really looking at.
 What time can I discuss that? And by the way, fly fishing on the snake river did that this past summer in St.
 Absolutely insane.
 Absolutely insane.
 Oh gosh.
 I've never, I've never, yeah.
 Yeah, we got, we have 15 in the boat.
 10 that were to the boat. And then probably like another dozen that were hooked.
 It was just insane. It was the best time of fishing ever had. It was awesome.
 So back to the double wind concept unpack that. What does that mean? What does that look like?
 Well, the double wind means that you're winning at work.
 So that's, but now whatever that means for you. And I think it's really important that as business owners,
 as entrepreneurs, as business leaders that we define what the win is, what does winning look like for you?
 So winning in business. What's that going to be? Because what you don't want to do is just be on the treadmill of, you know,
 success is just right beyond the horizon. That's what leaves to the 70 and 80 hour work weeks.
 But what does success look like for you? So you're winning at work. You're crushing it at work.
 But you're also in great health. You're families in, you know, in a good place, in a healthy place.
 But you've got friendships outside of work. And for years, I can fuse the people I worked with.
 You know, thought that they were my friends. And then, you know, it was friendly, certainly, but it was basically the advantage of proximity,
 not true friends, not friends outside of work. And so, you know, having all those other things is kind of the other part.
 So that's the second part of the double win. And you talked about the wheel of life. We've got a version of that.
 Where we talk about these 10 domains of life. But it's basically realizing that life is multi-dimensional.
 And if it's true that life is a marathon, this isn't a sprint. It's not a short term race, but it's a marathon.
 If that's true, then you can't afford to settle for success in just one of those areas.
 You know, it's got to be multi-dimensional for it to be sustainable.
 Because, you know, if you have a health crisis, it's going to back up in your business.
 If you have a crisis at work, that's going to back up in your marriage.
 You know, all these things are interrelated. They're not like these sterile compartments that are separate from each other.
 No, they bleed into one another. And so you've got to pursue sort of a full or 360 degree vision for success.
 And that's the double win.
 I love it. I love it. I love it. Another quote from the book is,
 "We fool ourselves if we think work is primarily about mere substance and meeting our physical needs. It meets deeply felt psychological needs as well."
 So we talk a lot about leaders finding their worth at work.
 You know, we mentioned that earlier and usually everything else in life suffers.
 What have you seen along this line?
 Well, you know, when I talk to people about this idea initially, people that are doing what you're doing or people that I coach, that are entrepreneurs and so forth,
 you know, they say, "But I love my work. My work is my hobby. You know, I, it's just, it's like going on the vacation.
 If I get to go to work, it's like going on the vacation." Well, you know, I'm thinking you need to get out more.
 You know, there's a whole lot more to life than what you're experiencing at work.
 But here's the thing, Chris. I think we're sort of the psychological aspect of it.
 Yeah, let's just say, "Now, if you're in work that you love, it is fun. I love what I do."
 You know, you know, doing this interview with you, I'm, I'm eating this up. I love this. I get paid to do this. Not by you, but I mean, this is, this is what my company pays me to do.
 I'm curious.
 The other thing about work is it's measurable.
 You know, we could look at it, we can say, "Oh, I achieved this outcome.com, this outcome."
 And you can mark your progress. You get a tremendous sense of progress. And all the research I've done about goal setting and happiness
 is that happiness is not come from achieving goals. Happiness comes from making progress against significant goals.
 And at work, you get that sense of progress. Not so much at home. You know, raising kids. How many kids do you have? 5, 5, 5.
 Yeah, raising kids, that's a long-term project. And sometimes it's 3 steps forward, 2 steps back. Sometimes it's 3 steps forward, 4 steps back.
 You know, it's hard to see the progress, and especially when you're caught right in the messy middle.
 And so it's easy. And I'm going to just do confession. I lied to my wife for years. It wasn't conscious.
 But I had an essence lied to her because I would say, "Oh, honey, I have got to work this weekend."
 True. I didn't know what to do with myself at home.
 It was trying to sort out the girls at five daughters, but trying to sort out their problems and listen to them and all that stuff is just like,
 "I felt totally incompetent. I didn't feel like I was good at it. I didn't feel like I was helping. You know, I'd get angry. You know, thank God."
 And it is the goodness of God. And the kind of sub-god that it all turned out.
 But in the middle of it, it was just so much easier. And I used this word very deliberately. It was so much easier to escape to work.
 That's right. It's right. I knew what I was doing. That's why I was getting lots of rewards. And by the way, that's another marker. You know, rewards at work.
 Nobody gives you a badge or a raise or a promotion or a bonus at home.
 Just in the end.
 That's one of the things we discover all the time in next-level life is that we will choose wherever we're getting the greatest amount of worth from that affirmation or identity.
 We will choose to spend more time there. And you can see that becomes the greatest area of focus. Because once again, like you said, there's almost an instant affirmation
 where when you go home, it's this expectation. You're supposed to be a great dad 24/7. You know what to do. You know how to lead things here.
 Sometimes we just don't. Sometimes we've got to learn how to be a great dad and how to raise great kids. The key for me, I think, is if as always, I'm an I'm always going to say,
 if we're putting God first, he's going to help us in this process.
 But if I will spend as much time learning how to be a great dad, is I will be learning how to be a great executive? I'll have phenomenal kids.
 I'll have, if I will spend as much, if I'll take a month, which again, I'm always loving this sabbatical, mus sabbatical idea.
 If I will take this time and go spend it with my wife and put that time into her and unity and then I will have a phenomenal marriage.
 And so I think, you know, we become, it's a very selfish thing, but I'm getting input from work.
 I'm getting reward from work. And so we did a show on the on where when you're looking at willpower, those who do great with willpower and the prefrontal cortex of their brain, they focus on great decision making, the decision making area of the prefrontal cortex.
 Those who are focused on not being able to have good willpower, self-control, the area that their brain focuses on is the desire and reward area.
 And so what you will find is whenever they're not able to focus on willpower, self-control, making good decision, go spend time at home, do all these things.
 Then what happens is that their ego deflates because they're focused on not getting the reward. I'm not getting the desire.
 So so many folks will look at work and go, "I get reward, look at home, I don't get reward. Let me go back to work."
 Definitely is a big piece of people's work and identity. The sub-tattle of the book talks about the cult of overwork.
 Tell us what the underlying myths or misconceptions that allow this belief to exist.
 Well, I think we have a whole culture that people want to get ahead. They want to provide for their families.
 All these motives are good. They start out good. They get perverted, unfortunately, by a culture that once total work.
 There's a very fine line between ambition and greed. There's nothing wrong with being ambitious.
 Even in the Bible, there's a passage I think it's the first Timothy chapter 3 talking about the role of elders in the church.
 It says, "Anybody who aspires to the role of an overseer desires a good thing." Nothing wrong with aspiring to leadership or any of that.
 But where it gets perverted is when it becomes sort of the total defining point of your life.
 That's the definition of an idol.
 Where I'm not a little bit. Where I work becomes an idol. I think you've got a lot of people who have nothing else. They don't have a relationship with God.
 They don't have their relationship with the church. They're not that close to their family.
 What's left is work. The weird part about this is the whole thing is reciprocal, reciprocally reinforcing.
 So, in other words, more time I spend it work to less time I have to develop those other areas of my life.
 And so it becomes self-reinforcing. We're in a position now. We're again. We've got so many celebrity entrepreneurs advocating for this hustle, hustle, hustle, hustle.
 If you want to get ahead, you've got a hustle. I can name names and we can all think of them.
 But it's very detrimental, particularly to young entrepreneurs with young families. They will destroy or burn out their families. And it's happening all the time.
 Yeah.
 It is just that.
 And I love that you point out.
 And again, when you take a look at somebody who is advocating this, the great mark is taking a look at their personal life.
 If you see that thing they're advocating is blessing their personal life, then it might be something to listen to.
 If it is something that is not, then ask yourself, is it worth it?
 And I will tell you, you and I both will stand on the mountain top and scream, "Nope, not worth it. Don't do it.
 Doesn't mean you don't bust your butt. Doesn't mean that you don't work hard. Doesn't mean that you can't kill it in the time frame.
 You can't do it in the time frame. But you can't do it in the time frame. But you can't do it in the time frame.
 But you can't do it in the time frame.
 But you can't do it in the time frame.
 But you can't do it in the time frame.
 But you can't do it in the time frame.
 But you can't do it in the time frame.
 But you can't do it in the time frame.
 But you can't do it in the time frame.
 But you can't do it in the time frame.
 But you can't do it in the time frame.
 So we talk a lot about healthy boundaries here. You're talking about constraints.
 What does that look like when it comes to not just constraints on work time?
 But what about the right emphasis on relationships?
 Team members, you know, desiring more time or how does it look outside of just that area?
 Well, first of all, most of those other areas, the way you cultivate those is with additional time.
 And that's the value of having constraints around your work so that you've got the time to invest.
 You know, it's not money that makes relationships flourish. It's time invested.
 You know, that's how kids spell love is TIME, you know, time with them.
 And, you know, we're so committed to this, not only for us that are leaders in my company,
 but for all of our employees, one of the things that happened to us with the pandemic began back in March.
 We were about two weeks into it. And we had all these young employees with young families who suddenly had no child care,
 no day care. There were going crazy, plus all the environmental stress from the economic uncertainty.
 And, you know, we moved into the summer with all the protests and so forth.
 And so we decided as an experiment, we said, what if, so that people have time to be of their families?
 And cultivate these other areas that you mentioned, what if we reduced our work day from eight hours a day to six hours a day?
 So we're going to work from nine to three. We're not going to dock anybody's salary.
 We're going to continue to pay them for 40 hours a week or the equivalent of 40 hours a week full-time child.
 But we only went into work 30 hours a week. What would happen?
 So, so I got up in front of the team and I said, look, we're going to try this as an experiment.
 But the key to us continuing is that we got to maintain the same level of productivity.
 We got to do 30 hours what we were doing in 40. Because I'm not backing off the budget.
 You know, the budget's a budget. We had a very aggressive budget for the year.
 But the budget's a budget. And so we're not backing off this. But let's just try it. You know, it may not work.
 So we tried it. To a slater, got together as an executive team.
 Ever checked in, we said, kind of is going pretty well. We can't notice any different productivity.
 So, you know, we tried it for another month. And then we decided we're going to do it through the summer.
 So again, 30 hours a week. We found that number one, our employees, of course, loved it.
 But their personalized were flourishing. They were able to do things with their family and with their health.
 Things that they've never been able to do before.
 And so we got together for our strategic planning meeting in September.
 The executive team we said, guys, we're on track to have an amazing year.
 We don't see anything. You know, that's slipping as a result of this new schedule.
 Let's make this a permanent benefit of Michael Hyden company, which is exactly what we did.
 And we're still doing it to this day. Now, the proofs in the pudding, right?
 So we finished 2020, 15% ahead on the top line.
 And about 101% ahead on the bottom line already highly profitable.
 But we were more profitable. And still continue to grow at double digits.
 Despite the fact there was a global pandemic and we cut our hours by 25%.
 So this stuff works.
 That is so impressive.
 So is that across the board?
 All leadership, everybody is working that time frame?
 Every single person in our company.
 Now, here's an added benefit that we didn't think about.
 Imagine what that does when you're recruiting.
 Like we have no sure.
 We have nine open positions right now.
 The last position we hired, we had 400 applicants.
 But with a sabbatical every three years with 30 hour work week, we have...
 Another thing we do too is we have unlimited pay time off.
 And they have never had anybody abuse that.
 We've been doing that for like four years.
 That's just so empowering. That's so powerful.
 What if somebody wants to work eight to four?
 We are working.
 Yeah, what is there?
 Now, you said something very early.
 You know, early or when you talk about the ox being in the ditch.
 They're going to be seasons.
 And I had one just recently where I had a webinar come off the rails
 and it wasn't what I expected.
 I had to work through the weekend to do it.
 That's fine.
 As long as it's truly temper,
 the danger is that we deceive ourselves
 into thinking something as temporary
 when we've made it permanent.
 We, you know, we Korean from one crisis to the next.
 Right.
 And because I, for years, I would say to Gail,
 I would say, well, babe,
 as soon as I get acclimated to this new position,
 then I'll give you in the girls the time you deserve.
 Or, "Bla, I just had a marketing director quit.
 And now I'm doing two positions.
 As soon as I get that position filled,
 I'll give you in the girls the time you deserve.
 And one crisis, blood into another one,
 and pretty soon that temporary became permanent.
 And you would be able with that."
 Famous loss words, right?
 So we, we did not do what you did.
 We experienced with, as soon as we hit the pandemic,
 we had a couple of our moms that were now working at home.
 Their spouse is working at home.
 Their kids.
 One of them's mildest daughter who's working in the business.
 I don't think she wants to take over the business.
 But she does a phenomenal job inside of the business.
 And what she does. But we started to hear this,
 "Hey, I'm struggling with how do I take care of all of my kids?"
 But you know, I'm, and it wasn't a,
 "Hey, Chris fixed this. It was just, hey, I just want to let you know.
 We're struggling."
 And so we just sat down and said, "Okay, well, what can we do?"
 And I like the nine to three idea.
 What we did is we went into sets of time.
 So we cut down and say, "Hey,
 I'm just being with family, work for these hours.
 Be with family, work for these hours."
 And you know, take a little chunk off.
 But man, I love the concept of the consistent, you know, focus in one set of time.
 I love that. I love that.
 I want to take a little bit of a turn because we've talked about men in this.
 You and I both have many daughters.
 You and Gail are raised five daughters.
 Speak to the business woman.
 I know for me, we have a lot of ladies in our group that are business owners,
 but they're also moms and they're trying to take care of everything.
 You know, and they have, there is this natural expectation
 that if you are going to be a woman in business,
 that you've got to do all the other traditional woman stuff,
 it's all on top of you, and you've got to do all this,
 and and and, and which is virtually impossible.
 I always ask whenever we do our events, I'll ask like the entrepreneurs,
 I'll say, how many I'll have somebody who's cleaning your house?
 And you're doing full time, and the hands are going up,
 and I'll say, how many of you all clean your house for the first four or five times
 they came over, and all of them the hands go up.
 It's like because you feel like that's your responsibility.
 What is it like through this concept, you know, everything that you're talking about here?
 What is it like for the the woman leader, the woman executive, the woman entrepreneur?
 Well, the fun part about writing this book, when it work in succeed alive,
 is that I had Megan, my daughter, or CEO, co-writer with me.
 So she gives her unique perspective too.
 So Megan has five kids including three adopted ones,
 and two of them with special needs.
 Wow.
 And she's like, good.
 So when I offered her the job press to be our CEO,
 so this was, you came on basically as a person's a puppy writer
 that a marketing director, and then I came to her and I said,
 I want you to be the CEO of the company.
 Once we got past about 35 people, I felt like I need somebody to help me with this.
 And she said, well, dad, I could do it, and I've told that point she was part time.
 She said, I can do it, but only if I can work nine to three.
 I want to be the one that picks up Moses and Jonah in school.
 And she said, are you willing to do that?
 And I said, yeah, I'm willing to do that.
 That was kind of the first experiment with this actually.
 If you look back on it.
 And that's kind of been her pattern.
 Because I think that the workload falls disproportionately to women.
 And it's just flat out not fair.
 They are taking the brun of this.
 You know, there's certainly cultural explanations for why we are where we are.
 But it's not fair.
 You know, there's got to really be a concept today.
 And I didn't grow up with this.
 So I guess, you know, it is said to these for me to criticize it.
 But there's got to be a coperantial relationship.
 There's got to be a sharing of household responsibilities.
 You can't expect, especially if the wife has a job outside of the home,
 you can't expect her to do all that.
 And then come home and do all the traditional.
 Yeah.
 Life things.
 No.
 It's a terrible one.
 And she's going to resent it.
 So I think it's it's time to rethink work and ask ourselves,
 what what is it that we're after?
 And I remember Dr. Stephen Covey in seven habits says begin with the end in mind.
 And I think it's such powerful good advice.
 You know, what is the end game here?
 What do we want?
 You know, do we want to preserve our marriage?
 Do we want to be in good health when we're, you know, in our 60s or 70s and 80s?
 You know, if we do, then we're going to want to invest in those relationships.
 And in those relationships and in those activities that lead to that.
 Absolutely.
 Absolutely.
 Final quote.
 I've got from the book, The Keyes to Spend the Appropriate amount of time in each of the major categories of life.
 So last question.
 I've got for you.
 If you could go back to a young, my diet.
 What would you tell him on anything?
 Yeah.
 I think I would say because I was pretty arrogant when I was young.
 I would say you're not as smart as you think.
 But you've got more potential than you can imagine.
 And honestly, I would say that to most young people.
 Yeah.
 That's so powerful.
 It's so powerful.
 We're rather so good to have you back on the show.
 Miss hanging out with you.
 How can people get the book?
 Tell us what to do.
 We're going to put links and everything in this.
 But what can they do?
 How can they get more?
 Well, first of all, thank you for having me on the show.
 Always great to be with you.
 We got to hang out some.
 You know, I love that.
 So you can go to this website.
 It's called WinN's thuxeedbook.com/lookerto.
 Okay?
 So WinN's thuxeedbook.com/lookerto.
 And if you go there, there's a whole bunch of bonuses that if you buy the book from any retailer, Amazon, Barnes and Noble, wherever you want.
 Come back with your receipt.
 You'll get those bonuses for free, including the Devil Wind Cheat Cheat.
 Which is a downloadable, beautiful infographic that you can frame and put on your wall.
 That will remind you of these Devil Wind principles, these five principles that free you from the cult of overwork.
 I love it.
 And the bonuses aren't.
 These aren't tiny bonuses.
 This is a whole lot of great stuff to help you walk through this process and implement and do a bunch of great stuff.
 So fantastic Mike.
 Thank you so much.
 We appreciate it.
 Folks, there you have it.
 I mean, such great information.
 Stuff I'm definitely going to be sitting down with after this and going, how can I say,
 I'm going, how can I make that work right there?
 Such good stuff to change your life, such good stuff to prioritize well, such good stuff to make you succeed.
 Not just in one area, but to succeed in life.
 So as always, take this information, change your leadership, change your business, change your life, and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]