 On today's episode, Trane shows the unsung hero of many small business owners and entrepreneurs,
 but definitely not for the faint of heart.
 That is coming up next.
 Welcome to the Chris LaCardau Show, where we discuss leadership and life,
 and discover that business is what you do, not who you are.
 Welcome to the show, folks.
 I hope you're having a fabulous day wherever you are.
 Today, we're talking about something that a lot of folks don't have enough information about,
 and that is experiential marketing.
 Trade shows, exhibitions, all that kind of fun stuff.
 So that's what we're going to hit today, and I am excited to get into this.
 In fact, I don't know if it's something that we've ever really covered.
 Now, it's something I've done.
 I've been a part of many in the past years and years ago, decades ago,
 being a part of those, but I don't think we've ever really dug into this on the show.
 So let's just kind of talk about what trade shows are,
 and then I'll introduce my guest who's going to help us dig deeper.
 So, at its essence, the trade show is an exhibition or a fair, primarily helpful
 businesses with a particular industry to showcase their products, their services,
 and even their expertise.
 So it's usually open to the public, but attendees are typically industry
 and setters such as dealers, suppliers, wholesalers, retailers, all that kind of stuff.
 And they're either looking to network or collaborate on business deals,
 or even find new products that they can sell.
 So dealers and suppliers look into collaborate, you know,
 that could sound a bit sketchy, but here's the deal of folks, it's legit, right?
 So context is everything.
 So some of these shows come after a few days or even a week,
 and the point is that businesses have a chance to interact with their target market,
 right?
 To gain insights into the industry or competitors,
 because there's a really good chance you might be right next to somebody who's doing the same thing that you're doing,
 but it's also a great opportunity for them to promote their brand.
 So with all of that being said, I want to invite back to the show, our resident expert,
 Justin Laird, Justin, welcome back to the show.
 Thanks so much, Chris. I'm excited to be here for this one.
 I think this is a great topic for a lot of our clients.
 And here's the thing, I think a lot of folks out there immediately might be like,
 "Wow, that's not for me, and they have no clue how this can be beneficial to them."
 So once again, our goal is to give as much perspective as we possibly can to help people make the best decisions,
 especially when it comes to trying to grow their business.
 So kind of speaking to your background, obviously, you know, serial entrepreneur,
 you've been doing this kind of stuff forever, kind of speaking to what your background is here.
 Yeah, so when trade shows, the majority of my previous businesses were service-based businesses,
 and so industry shows and things like that, I didn't really go to to sell my business,
 because I was selling, you know, doing my services locally wherever I was.
 I would go to some trade shows to learn about new technology or tools or whatever that I might use,
 but I wasn't going to the trade show as the business to sell my product or whatever.
 But when I started my company Fiverlite, it was my first hit venture into manufacturing a product,
 and actually selling a product and bringing a product to market.
 Brand building was a big thing, and obviously selling the product was a big priority of mine,
 and so trade shows became something that I learned about, and I experienced.
 I became a professional of doing trade shows, and it is one of the key things I could lean on to,
 to show, or to how I built that business was from attending trade shows, and being a part of that world,
 and I learned so much, and I learned how I used to look at trade shows, and what my goal was,
 and I learned that I was totally wrong, and what the goal really should be at a trade show,
 and I think that that is missed by a lot of people, and I would love to be able to jump into that and talk about that.
 Yeah, I definitely want to hit that, and I think, you know, we have many clients,
 a due trade shows, it's a consistent thing.
 We've guided many clients on getting out there, being a part of this, all that stuff,
 and over the years, I also want to hit the objections that people have, because a lot of folks just immediately assume this is too much work,
 it's too much outlay, but also like you say, a lot of people go with the wrong objective.
 Well, my objective is, as I'm going to go set up a booth, and I'm going to sell 30% of my year's products.
 But it's like, the stuff that they have the wrong idea, so I want to get into all that, but first, let's give some perspective on trade shows,
 conventions, industry shows, conferences, expos, job fairs, all of these things fall basically into three categories.
 What are those categories? Where do these things fall into?
 Yeah, so we start out with what we call consumer shows.
 These are shows that you as the business goes set up your booth, and the people that are going to walk in front of your booth are the consumers.
 You're actually going to be selling the thing that you sell right there, having that transaction right there.
 And they're typically open to the public, anybody interested in that thing can go to this trade show and experience this and see, you know, all the other businesses in that industry.
 And so that's a consumer show. Those are the shows that are most common that we've all been to in most cases.
 Then you've got your industry shows. These are different in the fact that they are typically not open to the public.
 The only people that are allowed to go are industry people. Most of the time they are buyers.
 They are, you know, other companies in that industry, you have to be able to, you have to show that you are a business owner.
 Oftentimes during registration of these events, you have to prove you have to like show them your business license or show them your wholesale license or you have to prove that you are a business owner in that industry to be allowed into the show.
 And then you have shows that are a mix of both where you get the consumers there, but there are also will have the buyers and industry people there as well.
 So looking at it and I think, I think everybody has experienced this at some point and may not even have realized it.
 Like if you've ever run a mirror, you know, have merit on our marathon or if you've ever done, you know, look around or something like that.
 And you see sponsor boots, a lot of times folks just think of, you know, sponsor boots, which that's what they are.
 But there's many times like in the consumer shows that really, you might, some of these might be happening and you don't realize you're a consumer.
 You might not realize that, oh, I do want this product, you know, I, I remember when I began running half marathons,
 I never thought about that a consumer show would be happening as I went to a get my registration and then had to walk through the 400 different boos that I stopped at probably 10% of it to look at and go, oh, I didn't even know that I needed this, you know, power gel as I've running.
 So there's all types of different experiences that we've had and sometimes I think we don't even think as business owners that that's an opportunity for us.
 And so I really want to kind of get that in the mind of the leader or business owner of, is this an option for you.
 But with that, I want to hit the second aspect of this, what are the pricings and what are the expectations of these three different areas.
 Yeah, definitely. So we start out with the like the consumer shows the general trade show oftentimes your local fair, you know, you go to the fair to have fun, but you've got all the booths of the local businesses and things like that.
 So you could stop at and spend money and buy their thing. Those ones are they could range from like free. Yeah, you've got just this local like craft show or something oftentimes the booths can be as low as just free to a couple hundred dollars.
 I think I would say upwards to maybe $800 for like the larger trade shows and conventions and things like that for your booth. And now there is a psychology behind it as well. It's very interesting. What you dive into it.
 You have an online booth, you could have like a corner booth, you could have an island booth, these all will have different pricing because you're going to essentially be able to experience a different type of traffic, right, where you're located in the convention hall or whatever, how the flow traffic flows like your chance of seeing more people over here versus, you know, in the back and the middle over here or whatever the cases and so those those booths will be different prices.
 The other thing I want to talk about here is like in these consumer shows, you're going there to sell product and you if you're doing a good job and you're putting the work into, you know, to get people's attention to stop to your booth and you're showing them something that's of interest to them.
 Ideally, you're going to sell product and you're going to make your money back, your investment, you know, going to the show and then some, you know, a perfect world.
 So that's important to know that in these consumer shows, you're selling your product and you're making money.
 Now the industry shows where they're not necessarily open to the public, it's only industry people, buyers and things like that are going to be there.
 You're not necessarily going to expect to actually have transactions right there where you're selling the thing and you're receiving money from the person right there and you're giving them the product.
 In most cases, that's actually not what's happening.
 You're talking with the buyer and you're showing them what you guys do, what your newest thing is or whatever the case is for the year, for the season.
 And it's their opportunity to then be able to place like a big wholesale order.
 They could give you a PO right on the spot, typically money is not transacted until after the fact.
 Or at least you're making them aware of the thing that you're selling so that in the near future they could send over a purchase order for you.
 So it's not necessarily an opportunity to make the money in the moment, but it's an opportunity to set yourself up for purchase orders, you know, set up your pipeline and things like that for purchase orders throughout the year.
 Those shows typically are much more expensive, their bigger shows and you're looking at, I would say, a low end like $500 for a booth space all the way up to like $30,000 for a booth space.
 Some of these companies will have, I don't know if you've ever been to a show like this before, but they will actually have like two story booths.
 On the ground floor, they've got, you know, they're product like just beautifully displayed and all this stuff.
 And then upstairs, they've got a meeting space, they you actually have to set up time slots to sit down with these people and have a meeting with them upstairs to discuss future purchase orders and things like that.
 So we could get wildly, you know, expensive.
 For those elaborate, you know, booth builds.
 You can put almost as much into your booth as you're paying for the space to put your booth in.
 Oh, it's not a little bit of situations.
 Yeah, it's just insane.
 Yeah.
 Yeah, I've seen someone's out.
 I mean, we've done something.
 We've done some words that are just buying at space, you know, we bought four spaces and then put up this amazing elaborate, you know,
 you call it a booth, but I mean, for the love, I mean, it gets so much more than just a booth.
 And like you said, time slots and, you know, people coming in and being able to have conversations and it all depends on the thing that you're trying to accomplish at the time.
 So as some people here, and by the way, when we look at like the consumer side of stuff, that's always going to be your retail side,
 you know, the trade shows, the conventions that kind of stuff, but what you're talking about right now is that that wholesale side, that industry wholesale side where you're getting the opportunity to reach many people who might sell your product for you, right,
 as opposed to the other shows, which is I'm hoping to sell all the individuals who walk by.
 Right, so that's also very important to distinguish in those.
 Yeah, and another thing too is, these people,
 man, I would love to, to really talk to and get to know like a person who has the job of a buyer for a large, like for Walmart or for your tax hoarding goods or something like that.
 These people I promise it's a part of their job description. They're not allowed to answer the phone and they're not allowed to respond to emails.
 Because they don't, I don't know what the deal is, but you can't just call a buyer and he's going to answer the phone.
 But where they do spend all their time is that the industry shows, they want to be able to touch and feel and see you meet you and see your product.
 And that's where they will make the decisions on if they're going to bring your product into a company like Walmart or you know, big five or whatever the case is.
 And so that's what you're paying for. You're paying for that opportunity to get in front of these people of these massive organization, massive businesses out there that are going to sell your product that are just such a large scale and getting into big box retail and things like that.
 That's where the buyers are and that's how you get a hold of them. You could call, you could try to call them all you want. They're not going to answer their phone and they don't return phone calls.
 And I think that's so important for so many of our listeners to understand because I think so many of them, I don't think I know many folks start off their business with creating a product.
 And then they try contacting every big store, every big box store and trying to get to that buyer and I'm not saying that you can't somehow the megal your way in maybe you have.
 But like you're pointing out, it is the buyer's job not to take that phone call. That is not the call that they want. That's not where they need to spend the time because there's 40,000 people calling them today to try and sell their widget.
 So if they took every one of those calls, they would never put anything in their stores, right, because that's not how they get a feel like you said they want to feel it. They want to touch it. They want to experience it. So if you're looking to get your product into retailers, that's just not the way to go about it.
 And not saying that there aren't people out there who have somehow been successful at it, I'm just saying that they are the exception to the rule. Most of the folks that if you're going to get your product in that store, you got to get in front of the buyer with your product.
 And see what it's like and know whether or not they want to go sell that for you. So what we're hitting here is a couple of different options and what I want to get into next is for folks to actually what should their goals be.
 So what I'm saying is that you're getting at a two different aspects here. One is you getting your product in front of the people who will buy the individual product or multiples of your product, right.
 So how do you get straight to the consumer in a larger way than you're currently doing.
 And it's a great opportunity to find a right place. I think I know a lot of people that have a bad taste in their mouth for doing something like this because they just chose the wrong show.
 It doesn't mean that they show couldn't work for them, but if you have the wrong audience and then you're just wasting your time, right. So one, you got to get in front of the right audience for what you're doing, but also don't miss out on the opportunity to pick up somebody who's then going to take your product that a lower price point and distribute that thing out because they have the ability to get in front of their customers with your product.
 But with that being said, what should be my goals? How do I determine what goals I have for either aspect?
 Yeah, the interesting thing is you mentioned picking the right show and things like that.
 It's incredible the amount of trade shows that there are for like every industry. If you sell per se, there is several trade shows that are just around selling per se, right.
 Every single industry has dedicated very specific shows for that industry. So picking the right show clearly is very important.
 So I remember when I first, I remember when I went to my first trade show, the idea, in the beginning they were all consumer shows, I was just selling my widget, right, two people that were standing in front of me.
 My goal was to go there and sell a bunch of it and make money.
 It seems like the no brainer, right, that should be the goal. I found out that that is actually no longer my goal when I go to trade shows anymore.
 It needs to be something that you're thinking about, right, there is obviously a big part of it.
 I'll talk about here in a little bit. But some of the things that you could think about, or that you should think about that outside of just making the money selling the product, is you know trade shows, if you went to the right one, the vast majority of people that are there are your people.
 They are interested in the thing in the market, the industry that you are in. And so getting in front of them, there's a lot of validation that happens there. This is something that will take you from just being a mom and pop, you know, working out of my garage type thing to the perception of being a real business of real brand in the market, an established brand in the market.
 There's a lot of value in brand building, and that should be something that is a goal of yours that you're focusing on, that you're building a brand with the people who care about the industry that you're in.
 And so when I started fireballing, I spent the entire first year on a national trade show tour. My kids are homeschooled, my wife and my kids are awesome, and they're like, we support you, let's go do this. So we went on the road for an entire year, which is weekend after weekend after weekend for almost an entire year, straight of trade show after trade show.
 And I was fortunate, I was very lucky for a lot of reasons in that we did very well in the trade show.
 I never went to a trade show that I lost money on with the travel and the cost of the boost, based on all that stuff. We always made our money back and then some.
 But the thing that I didn't realize that was happening that now I understand is a very valuable goal in thinking about was these people would see me at this trade show and then they're like, two months later, they would see me at another trade show.
 And my company was just present. The name of my brand was just present in the industry inside of these shows that my people were, we're attending.
 I was just always there. And so the brand building that happened from that organically like I didn't know that this was the thing until I experienced it and I understood how valuable it was.
 Where the name recognition and the brand recognition was being built from me just being present at these shows.
 And I started to realize that that is pretty valuable. Like it's starting to be more valuable than the actual sales and transactions that I'm having at the show, which is cool.
 And it's good, you know, a fort to happen there for me to, you know, generate an income in the moment.
 But the brand building thing allowed me to continue to generate income after the moment, right? Where it helped build a brand, which was so important.
 There's a perception that starts to happen and man, we did the same thing. I mean, we started off early going to shows to get in front of a client, you know, getting in front of somebody that is interested in something that we were selling.
 And later on realized that we could own a trade show by marketing in the trade show. And it wasn't even, you know, you might outlay. And this is what we would call a loss that you know, you might lay out an incredible amount of marketing by putting, you know, those little, the non glued sticker stuff and an elevator somewhere.
 You know, you step into an elevator at a convention center and the doors closed and there's our brand. And it's speaking specifically to you, right? And it's like then you would go walk down into the main floor and as you're walking in between booths on the floor, you're walking over one of our ads.
 And things like this. And what we come to realize is the very thing that you're speaking about is that we could actually walk away from a show losing money and end up making more money.
 Because I've went from that initial concept of, would you please buy my product to, you know, once you start realizing, oh my gosh, the presence of the brand is now becoming something that's drawing more people instead of just the product itself.
 Right, it has a life outside a path to the show, right? The thing about goals that I realized is that, you know, initially obviously selling the product at the show was what I thought it was, although what I thought it was all about.
 What I ended up realizing on top of the brand building aspect of it, which was like life changing for that brand was relationship building.
 I ended up, you know, now when I go to a trade show, I don't care how much product we sell. If I sold nothing, I'd be totally fine with that.
 Because that is not where the value is. It's hard to look past it. It's hard to think like, what do you mean you're going to spend money, you're not if you're going to make any money, how does that make any sense?
 The relationships that I've built at these trade shows have brought me 10, 20, 30 times more revenue than the revenue I've ever made it in the show.
 And it's important to understand it's because who's there? You're not just making a relationship with a random person who wants to buy one of your product, right?
 Yep, and it's not even necessarily the people that are walking in front of the booth.
 It's the other people in the industry that are there that is even like even more powerful of a relationship.
 I still today go every October I go to a trade show that I don't have a booth anymore, but I go there because it's like a family reunion. These people that I've built relationships with.
 We want to go and see each other once a year. And these are some of the most influential and powerful people in the outdoor industry that I have.
 We're like family and I go just so that I could see them all again and they do the same thing and we talk like, "Oh, I can't wait for October, you know?"
 And I just did an example, Jeff Kirkham. Jeff Kirkham was one of the founding owners of Black Rifell Coffee Company.
 He owns a ton of other companies. He's the number one bestselling author. This guy's an absolute rock star.
 I remember I met him at Preparacone in 2017. He was there. Just in the industry. He owns several outdoor companies in the outdoor industry and in the like prepper space.
 He was there as an attendee. He walked in front of my booth. I didn't know who he was. I showed him the demonstration of my product. He fell in love with it. I ended up finding out he gave me his business card.
 I ended up finding out that he was the owner of Black Rifell in the owner of Ready Man, a rat's turn to get all these other outdoor industry companies.
 We built a relationship. Now he's my business partner and two of my businesses. I have made more money having this relationship with Jeff Kirkham than I ever did it.
 All of the trade shows combined that year. I've made more and more revenue from the relationship I built with Jeff Kirkham.
 I could tell you 10 other stories of the exact same thing. My goal now when I go to a trade show is build relationships. I'm looking to shake hands. I'm looking to meet people.
 I'm looking to foster those relationships after the show.
 That is where the true value comes from a trade show and where I think people miss. They don't think about it. They're just so focused on the man. I got to get people in front of my booth.
 I got to show them my thing and I got to sell them right now. This is a massive failure.
 You're so in the weeds of doing that. You miss out on the most important thing from a trade show, which is the relationships that you build not only with your consumer, that's standing in front of you, but other industry people that are in the booths next to you.
 Those relationships are so powerful. It's incredible. There are a lot of folks that set out to do their first show sell what you can.
 You have to get out there. Sell as much as you can. Obviously that must be a goal as you get going. If right now, you're going with a show is to put food on the table to outsell your expenses. Great fantastic.
 But we have clients who have become a friend of the friends over the years that are in the same industry but different geolocation.
 I don't know if they all met at an industry show. But these are folks that all one became a client a decade ago and then the next one did.
 They all support each other and trying to accomplish and grow their version of the same industry product and services that they provide.
 And that relationship. So they go and meet at trade shows and do the same kind of stuff and we get together sometimes and do things that are just leadership style stuff.
 And they're a competitor. You're not supposed to hate them. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. And the reason why is because again they are they're locked down to their location right there in three completely different states. They've got some distance between them.
 And they're not going to be a business. They're not going to be a business. They're not going to be a business. They're not going to be a business. They're not going to be a business. They're not going to be a business.
 And business associates if you want to call it that. And because of that it is I mean all three of their businesses have come through Stratland. You know all three other businesses. You know I coach these guys and we have phenomenal business conversations and personal conversations.
 And they have continued to pour into each other. And so I think this is so incredibly valuable as we're talking through determining your goals obviously.
 This is your first show. Your number one goal is probably not. I hope I can make a relationship that means a lot to me down the road. Your first goal is probably please outside my expenses.
 Right. And that's understandable. But it can't be your only goal.
 It can't be your only goal to go in outsell your expenses because then you're missing out on the exponential aspects of being there in the first place.
 If you and let's you're just planning on one and done right I did one show I'm only going to do one show I never plan on doing another show it's just I'm doing this for the fun of it tickles and giggles right whatever.
 Then this can become one of your best marketing aspects of your business because not only do you get to sell your product.
 That's great fantastic we're getting products sold out there.
 But you can build relationships with people that can come alongside you and help you out or in just in situation.
 Somebody who jumps in and says hey let's start a couple of the businesses let's see you know we both have great business acumen let's get out there and sell some products right and then the compliments everything else that you're accomplishing so.
 I think we need to you know as you're looking at any of these aspects now are you going to go and do an industry show and drop 30 grand right now.
 If you've never done one you know I unless you just have ridiculous amounts of money that you've got to burn I would not suggest doing that.
 What if you smart to get into some industry shows and test some theories out and while you're there pay attention to what everybody else is doing.
 I just that I'm sure you've done this so I mean we've we used to walk around we would have a couple of folks that just literally would just walk around had nothing to do with our stuff.
 Just walk around and see what somebody else is doing or you walk around and create those relationships right you just want to go and see man if somebody doing something better than us can we steal an idea from somebody.
 Or is there somebody out there that we can create that relationship with so I think creating that and this is our goal for you folks is to be able to sit down with this level of perspective and put together what are my goals.
 How many of these events should I do you know as I'm looking at what just in saying the pricing and expectations and the travel and you know does my family get to go with me or my not going to see my kids for a year.
 You know all of these different aspects are things you need to take into account.
 And again this is what we call perspective gathering right the greater the perspective you get the better decisions you can make.
 And so it is not uncommon for one of our clients to be selling the bulk of their yearly sales because of shows.
 Right they've got websites they've got local footprints they've got all kinds of stuff going on the sell products but they get out in some of these trade shows which some people just hate the concept of going and doing.
 And it can end up being you know half of their year of sales or sometimes even more just kind of depends.
 You know if you get in one of those industry sales and who knows you might have a box store that can pick up and distribute you product a thousand times better than you could.
 Right if you if you had the blessing that could be a blessing and by not being but if it turned out to be a blessing of getting into some of these box stores.
 So here's what I want you guys to hear is we're talking through these these processes here and we're doing these shows to help you get great a perspective on some of these areas that you may not be thinking about.
 This is what we do this is what our hope is is that our hope is to be able to speak into your leadership to speak into your business.
 You know to help you to come along side you and help you get that perspective that changes the way you do your business.
 Obviously you know for all the folks that show up at our next level leadership live event.
 It's getting that that powerful information that helps you to teach your leadership better.
 There will be even God your team better.
 So here's what I want you to do. I want you to head on over at Chrissacordo.com and click on what we do and see if we are the right fit for you and your team.
 If we can help you and your business team your leadership team then that's exactly what we want to do.
 We want to be able to get you the right information that grows your business.
 So Chrissacordo.com click on what we do and let's see if we are the right fit for you guys.
 So again just as we've done I want you to take all this information and kind of summarize you know in offer advice to folks that are now seriously curious about this.
 And what are some specific recommendations you would give them?
 So with Trichos I love this quote it says you can't be upset about the results that you don't have in the work that you didn't do.
 Trichos are a lot of work.
 I can't tell you how many times I've been at Trichos and the company next door to us is upset at us because we are I'm air quoting as I'm
 I'm saying this we are stealing all of the all of the people like there will be our booth will be the for you.
 It's like three rows back people just crowded around our booth and there is nobody at the one next to us and they think it's our fault that they don't have anybody at their booth.
 The reality is that I brought tons of people right next door to your booth as they walk away you could grab those people but they're upset at me because we have all this attention but they're sitting down at the back of their booth scrolling through Facebook.
 Yes.
 Yes.
 And it's like and Chris what you said earlier about like your first couple shows it's kind of hard not to have the goal of just sell the thing you know make the money right.
 You're not going to do that by sitting at the back of your booth scrolling through Facebook.
 Like at the end of the day of that show you should have lost your voice your throat should be hurting.
 Because you're not sitting down you're standing up you're engaging you're like in the aisle you know like barricading people or like you're like you can't move fast until you see you're like the aisle troll you know you can't you can't keep walking until you stop in my booth.
 But you've got to give them a reason to stop you know you've got to give them a reason to want to engage with you.
 So it's it's work luckily.
 I'd love to hit on this for just a quick second. I'm so glad you brought this up.
 Because there's two aspects we've all been to you know we've been to shows where we see that person.
 I've been to shows where the booth next to us are just random booths if you're just walking through the show itself.
 And somebody is sitting in a chair legs crossed arms crossed you know in front of them staring at the people is they walk by.
 Not even on Facebook they're just sitting there waiting for somebody to ask them a question now.
 And on top of that sometimes it's some young folks that work for the company that have no incentive to push this word.
 This is a in my mind this is a class of ways.
 Here's the thing I want you to think about right and so I know guys I'm a high S as well.
 I know the personality styles that what you just said about being the you know the the troll out there in the aisle.
 There are people that like oh gosh I could never do this.
 You're misunderstanding the concept here it is not to jump out there in tackle people and be in a sense.
 They are literally coming to this event to be talked to.
 These are not random people on a sidewalk in New York City that you're tackling and trying to sell a foe Gucci bag.
 This is somebody who actually wants to know what you have to sell.
 But here is what everybody else has experienced.
 I will speak for myself but I'm speaking for millions of people every time I walk past a booth where somebody looks absolutely.
 You know indifferent to my being there.
 It's a booth I will never go to.
 I'm never going to stop and ask that booth you know that person about their product because if you don't even care enough to just stand up and say hey hey you know try and draw my attention.
 Try and draw my attention to your product.
 It just feels like well you're so lazy why how am I going to trust your product to be something that I want.
 Now yes that is absolutely prejudice.
 I'm looking at the situation and making a quick you know judgment.
 But I will tell you that that is the usually when I stop and actually engage that person.
 What I get is continue delasiness.
 You know it's almost as if I've interrupted their day and they have to tell me something about their product.
 But the person who is all about you know and again because I want to know I didn't come to this show with no desire to be sold.
 I actually came to the show with the you know the potential of buying things is not you know again I want to make sure that people understand that.
 But I enjoy the person who jumps out there and wants to tell me about their stuff. I enjoy the person who's passionate about it. So I'm sure you've experienced that as well.
 Yeah the other thing with that is like as you're looking down the aisle like you know typically it's like traffic flows and one direction you're looking down there and you're seeing who's coming up next.
 It's hard to not do this and I'm telling you I'm going through this because I don't want you to do this but you look down there and you see.
 For example I'm in an outdoor show selling a fire starting product right I see a group of older ladies coming down the aisle.
 They're not camping they're definitely not starting a fire with service here in broad.
 Right to like I'm just going to let them pass me without you know wasting my own time to try to see if they want to buy this product that they clearly aren't using.
 Our art going to be prejudices that the product is for them. Right what I found you are know who buys the most amount of fiber like which is you know the fire starting product you want to know.
 Who buys the most when you and I have not talked about this but my assumption is going to be grandparents or parents.
 Absolutely the old ladies.
 They will buy so much that stuff like stocking stuff for their 15 grandchildren.
 It's incredible.
 Yeah it's incredible.
 The other one that's funny is so you would naturally think like the outdoor looking guy would be the one I want to talk to.
 Those are the ones that unfortunately have a whole lot of pride in it's like nah I know how to start a fire.
 I don't need to.
 I don't need to start a fire.
 The best one is when they're walking with their wife the husband is like not or need to stop at this but let's keep going.
 When the wife will turn around after the husband kind of went down a couple of boots she'll turn around come back say my husband actually he doesn't need this stuff.
 So let me I'm going to buy some without him knowing it because he actually needs it.
 It's hilarious.
 But anyway all that to say that in summary I hope it wasn't heard that selling the products is not the goal.
 That's not what we were trying to say.
 There are other goals to be aware of that are equally important or even at a different scale more important in a lot of ways.
 You know when the show is set and done you know those relationships are can be long lasting and very very lucrative and beneficial to you in a lot of ways.
 But because selling at the trade show is you know one of the things we're trying to do you know making sure that the people that are there your booth.
 Understand how important it is that you know you set it Chris just those people who are employees who are tattled like today's your day to go set it the booth and they're like you know dang it you know this is going to suck and then I'm just going to sit there and scroll through my face.
 You know it's a class of ways to time and so I have I'm always there but I also I employ post-ev people that will run the booth.
 But but I'm always there so that I could build those relationships and not have to worry about doing the sales part so that I could just worry about you know the relationships.
 Yeah it's so smart.
 So how do people get started?
 So one thing is that is this is picking the right show doing some some research to find those industry shows because you know you do want to make sure it's the right show so that that person that's there is there for the same reason why you're there and they're interested in seeing the new products of the new things the new services the new technology whatever.
 Around that industry so making sure the right show.
 It's not a bad idea to do your local fair do you know whatever where it's just kind of hot podge of everything but you but don't judge the potential of trade shows based on a horrible experience you had at local fair or whatever the case is you know when you start getting into very specific industry shows.
 It is a whole another world it is not what you will experience out of fair you know it's a whole other world and there's so much potential there to sell your product get in front of the people build your brand build relationships and each one of those things are super important so.
 Get started by try it out.
 You know do some local stuff so you could understand what it's like to stand there all day and talk about your product and get interest from people that aren't interested you know stuff like that because it is a practice skill you know it is something that can be uncomfortable or weird intimidating or whatever but.
 But once you do it and you build those muscles it becomes easier because we're fun and becomes more successful and all that stuff so just get started by just going to do it one do a small one do local one.
 That's such a great point and a plan on it not being everything you thought it would be if you go with the expectation.
 That this is a practice this is a practice run this is a trial run right we're going to go do this thing if we sell.
 Great if we make some relationships great but if it flops well okay keep going get back on the horse try again right because it will take and I will say and I'm sure you probably experienced this as well.
 You know I was never we did a lot of these stretches but I was rarely ever the person running you know in there actually running the boost I would go and be a part help out you know add expertise to it.
 But I remember the early days that some of them were just disappointing you know in this concept of man we literally got nothing there and what we would do is tear apart why we thought that was.
 You know one of the biggest things you've got to do you know and you pointed this out so well.
 If you go to sell fiber light to a hundred professional you know outdoorsmen hikers who travel with the lightest amount of stuff then the chances are you're probably not going to sell a lot.
 Those guys are going to be like you said more you know prodding themselves on their ability to go and you know find front rocks and make something happen or rub sticks together.
 But so you might be looking at this and going well definitely the crowd is not the old ladies you know definitely that's not the people I want to be in front of.
 You know or the spouses of the hiker you know it's it's the person who does the thing and the truth is like you said buy far.
 The person who buys fiber light is not the person who it's intended uses for.
 It's the person who's buying it for that person.
 And so making sure that you're getting in front of the right crowd is just paramount.
 All right make sure that you're getting in front of the people who actually this is so and again.
 It doesn't mean that you're looking for grandmothers who are looking to purchase a fire starting kid.
 You're looking for grandmothers who are looking for another new idea that they can bless their children with.
 So something that speaks to my son with love this my God I would love this so I think that's such a big aspect of this get out there do it in your local community test it out.
 But for the love do not base your success on one event sit down rip that thing apart afterwards.
 You know go through all the things that work that didn't work go through the discussions that you had right down all the learnings you know use it as a practice for you to step up and hit some bigger events and then optimize the daylights out of it.
 So any last things that you'd like to share with our our listeners that they just.
 Yeah if there is a big event that you're is kind of like the dream of like man I would love to get there one day go to it as an attendee before you go to it as a big event.
 So it's going to go look and see an experience and ask questions and things like that the other thing is I remember the very first big industry show just 2017 is all like city.
 I was so nervous because like this was the like the I was playing with the big boys and at that time the my business was wasn't even a year old yet and.
 It was I was just the smallest guy in the biggest pond and I had a had a plastic you know rubber made fold out table with a black table cloth over the top of it and.
 I had one little one little like like expandable banner thing behind me that said my business name on it and I didn't have any professional like set up you know I just had a couple of my products sitting on the table and in the middle of the table I had a.
 A burn pan where we did some demonstrations and things but it was it was not pretty in any way clearly I didn't spend any money on buying all this elaborate you know trade show booth set up stuff.
 And so I was nervous that I would go in there and just be swallowed up by all these big guys around me and I would look.
 I would be embarrassed or I just wouldn't look professional enough or whatever the case was I just didn't know what I was doing.
 What I found in this shocked me so much I just happened to get so lucky that I was in like the I like the first aisle where you know when you go to the grocery store.
 You have like a routine right you like either go all the way to the right or go all the way to the left and then you start on that aisle and then you work your way you know up and down each aisle as you as you walk through.
 That's kind of when accidentally happened at this trade show so I was like the first aisle that the traffic just happened to come to when they walked in the front door.
 A lot of people came to my booth and it was the first you know two second third booth that they saw and they're like man I really like this stuff but I have a budget and I don't know what else is here and so I'm not going to buy anything right now but I'm going to keep in track of things that I might want to come back to and buy after I realize everything that I want to buy I look at my budget and see what I could afford.
 So I was like okay sounds good.
 They would go through the whole show and the amount of people that came back to my simple very elementary booth to tell me that I had the best booth in the entire place.
 So this is a year lying to me this is this cannot be true because I see that but it looks really cool a mind is not cool there I know but it's it's you it's the whole presentation it's the how the product work it's like the coolest thing that I saw at the entire show.
 And I couldn't I just couldn't believe it I it was it was amazing and if I never just did it I would have never done it right and those experiences just continue to grow my experience and grow my knowledge of how this all works and what I could do better what you know what's working for me and all that type of stuff and it was really it was just really cool to experience.
 Trap okay that I got a throw one last piece of information it folks this is what we do our whole our goal is to help you recognize and understand and put these things in place.
 There were times we would walk through and just ask the question if I don't talk to the person can I understand what they're selling.
 If I just walk by the booth there's no I love I had the image in my mind of what seeing you with that small table with the burn pan there is no doubt I know exactly what you're selling.
 I mean it it just screams to me you don't need a big banner and obviously your banner had the name on it but you don't need all this fancy flash we would go buy some boots and go.
 This is so busy and so noisy that I just have nothing but confusion I want to keep moving on so I love that the simplicity of what you had is what drew people back to saying this is the best this is a cool.
 Good stuff and I love that this is you know stuff that can be applied to so many different business now obviously you know if when you're coaching somebody on this you're definitely sitting down and getting all the perspective and guiding them individually to their business their industry their clients and all that kind of stuff right I mean when if you were to sit down with somebody individually.
 I mean if you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that you're going to be a good thing that
 Helping coaching guide to gain that perspective and have those proper goals worked out and understand that aspect of like.
 How much work is going to be involved in it that you know what what it takes to to get everything out of it.
 And so I mean to draw the people in to sell the thing that you're selling but on top of that to give yourself time and the opportunity to look for those.
 Building opportunities right to look to look at the show not as like all these people are my competitors but to be able to look at it be like.
 How can these relationships.
 Working collaboration and what is the benefit to that and how to be able to adjust that perspective because.
 So many people are sitting there it's like a competition like I'm going to make my booth look better than your booth so I could get more people to sell more stuff than you can I'm going to you know make sure that I I know what your product doesn't do so that I could tell them how my product does that better like.
 Just a big competition it's like there's a flow of people here and I just got to get all of them before you do you know but.
 So some aspects of that are things you have to think about but it's like it's not actually the thing.
 The thing is relationship building with the people in front of you.
 But also the opportunities for relationships with other people in your industry.
 I could go on and on and on about relationships I've built with people with people that would be my competitors that other people would say why are you talking to that person like you should be.
 And it means with that per no way not even close like we do things slightly different and I could I could help him in this aspect and he can help me in this aspect or whatever.
 The relationship part of it is in my opinion the most important part of the trade show and your your.
 Success or failure in that if you went to a trade show and you're around all these people that are in the same industry as you and you left without having a single person's phone number email business card.
 With the desire to continue the conversation later.
 That's a failed show in my opinion.
 Man this is the difference.
 This is what I love about what we get to do this is the difference of having quality input and perspective from an expert.
 To help you because the moment you said it the moment you said the competition piece I can go back.
 And you remember conversations I had decades ago with people that that's their mindset.
 They literally are so focused on the competition at the event that they're missing the bigger goals and they're not even thinking through specifically for them what's the best goals what's the best outcome.
 So I love that you just share that piece because that's the difference of how you should go do this thing.
 And then you step into the arena just like everybody else.
 So everybody's my competition now I've got to do better than that person.
 I've got to look better than that person my boost got to be faster than that person.
 And you completely miss out on the bigger goals.
 So folks hopefully this is this is making sense this is.
 Can I again.
 Can I give I want to give a very specific example.
 Please yes.
 I'm so of how I could have looked at.
 What are the other businesses there as a competitor in a way.
 So there's a company called Wolf and Grizzly out of Canada they make very high end portable.
 Like fire pits basically they're like metal and they fold up their titanium they're very high end and they have accessories to them.
 So you could fold out the base of the of the portable fire pit and build your fire inside of that so it's like it's safe and you're not like going to stay.
 And you're not like going to start a force fire whatever right.
 And then there's accessories where you could put like grill on top of it so you could then grill your food and all this stuff.
 They were like right across for me.
 I could have assumed that they are my competition because they're selling a product associated with fire.
 I'm selling a product associated with fire.
 But I couldn't because I'm looking at it from a different perspective.
 I'm like that's a really cool product that they sell.
 How are the people that buy that product starting the fire inside of that product?
 Exactly.
 Right.
 So I walked over there and I was like hey I just want to meet.
 You know we both are fire experts we do fire stuff that's cool.
 You know what do you got going on?
 I got a show me and we start talking and that's why I asked the question.
 So how do your customers start the fires?
 I expected them to have a product that they sold.
 They sold fair Syrian rods which just does the spark.
 If you take a fair Syram rod over to a tree and you spark the heck out of the side of the tree you will never like the tree on fire.
 Like it just doesn't work that way.
 You need to you need something to catch the spark and hold the flame initially and like there's you know there you need something smaller right.
 So they sold fair Syram rods but they didn't sell an actual like fire starting product that could be used with their fair Syram rod.
 Well what this turned out as we got to know each other and built a relationship after the event.
 We ended up doing a white label contract where my product fiber label of it goes into their packaging and they sell their wolf and grizzly they call it spark fiber.
 Which is cracked cracks me up.
 But you could go and look at spark fiber by wolf and grizzly and the pictures of the stuff that is inside their packaging is my product is fiber like.
 I love it.
 And that came out of my desire to want to build a relationship and not see these people as competitors.
 This folks this is why you need great coaching and great expert advice.
 You know don't just go and do this and not have great goals and not understand what all the possible results are coming from this.
 This is information that man hopefully you guys are soaking this up because what a fantastic opportunity.
 And again like I said the moment you said it I went back to that time.
 I went back to that time and those early days of seeing everybody just feeling like they're competitors with everybody and it's like you're just you're wasting your time because there's nothing but opportunity.
 So great aspect that love that good stuff man.
 Thank you again for joining us on the show and giving so much of your expertise.
 Appreciate it.
 Don't problem I appreciate you having me Chris his great times.
 I will share with the group that you did strike the what do you call the stick again I could never get this name this word out.
 Technically it's called a fairer serium rod but we call it short ferro rod.
 Okay so the ferro serum rod you while you were speaking at the event on stage and you had one of those rods out there and you're striking that thing and I'm like.
 This isn't going to set the building on fire.
 It's like oh wait that's right you need the fiber light stuff to go with and cool there you go.
 But it was so much you're pretty I'm a professional fire starter I got this.
 So again thanks man I appreciate it lots of good information.
 Folks hopefully this is helping you hopefully this is another great marketing piece for you to potentially plug in.
 Please don't sell yourself short on this if you're listening to this show and you're like I could never do that that wouldn't work out with me.
 Keep talking about it keep asking questions about it.
 Again and see if it can fit you if it can and if it's something that will work for you then buy all means figure out a way to go ballistic with it and have fun and like just and said create the relationships that will be even more powerful than just selling your province.
 So hopefully this has been helpful for you today as always we want to take this information.
 Change your business, change your life and join us on the next episode.
 [Music]